!! Все страхи мира (Рассекречено в 91)

Террористы используют ядерную бомбу, утерянную жидмасскими ВВС, в целях провокации, чтобы развязать войну между Фронтиром и Союзом. После взрыва и террористических провокаций в Берлине начинаются локальные стычки между фронтирскими и союзными войсками. Президент Валуев, получив неверные прогнозы, впадает в панику и едва не начинает ядерную войну, но Раину удаётся связаться напрямую с президентом Фронтира Мормонтом и предотвратить бойню. Фронтир и Союз отказываются от МБР.

Ryan reaches his highest post at the CIA, Deputy Director of Central Intelligence. His career is jeopardized when Fowler becomes President and Elizabeth Elliott, Fowler's lover/manipulator, becomes National Security Advisor. They not only deny Ryan any credit for an innovative Middle East peace plan (basically turning Jerusalem into a Vatican-like city co-ruled by three Christian, Jewish, and Arab/Muslim mayors), but also panic when Palestinian and former East German terrorists detonate a nuclear bomb in Denver during the Super Bowl and nearly plunge the world into a Soviet-American nuclear war. Ryan defuses the nuclear crisis by commandeering the Washington-Moscow hot line and convincing the Soviet Premier (through his friend Golovko) that the crisis is a setup. He then refuses to confirm Fowler's order to launch a nuclear missile at Qom (thus preventing the attack), where the Iranian ayatollah lives. The crisis and Elliot scandal drives Fowler to resign. On this note, Ryan retires from the CIA and flies to Riyadh in Saudi Arabia to witness the execution of the surviving terrorists, and is then honored by the U.S.'s Middle Eastern allies by being presented with the sword used to execute the Iranian terrorists.

The film again departs from the novel, by presenting a younger, unmarried Ryan, an intelligent mistress-free Fowler, a Greer-like Cabot, and the nuclear bomb is detonated over the city Baltimore instead of Denver. It also changes the identity of the terrorists from Iranians to neo-Nazis.
