!! Письмо

[>
17 April 1916
Dear Andrew.

The fever of gold is still with me my brother, though I fear it shall rip my life to pieces before it is sated. Where should I begin? I’ve told you about the Bottle young Joey found on the beach, the way he thrust a grubby handful of pages onto the kitchen table and sat my life spinning into this hunt.

To a newspaperman such as myself, the pages within the bottle were a treasure unto itself. The made mention of a mysterious Box, … and oddly enough. I have uncovered other references in the city’s paper during the gold rush, some of which I have enclosed lest you think me mad.

The pages also mentioned a sailor Smalley, and I managed to track down a descendent, a sailor himself on a grain trader, the ship Balclutha. At first he denied any connection to the former Smalley, but some ale soon loosened his lips.

He talked much that night, of family folk tales, of a foreign kingdom and an evil overseer, and … how his father had given him a charmed Necklace that would show the Truth of the past! I gathered the Necklace was within his quarters on the sheep, and we made plans to meet the next day.

Unfortunately the ale proved too powerful for me, and by the time I awoke, the Balclutha had sailed to England. As for Smalley, rest his soul, he was killed in a storm on the trip. I have debated whether to wait for its return, but the necklace sounds more like superstition, and I am so close as it is.

As for the pages, a few seem to have vanished from my grasp. I can only suspect Joey himself, being that he evinced some show of hurt when I first took the pages, key and ruby from him. No manner of spanking seems to alter his sullen mood.

Yet eve with these setbacks, I see the light at the end of the tunnel. I have located the Fort mentioned in the articles, and my research into this secret society has prepared me for any puzzle or trap that surrounds the Box. Still, I feel there are the eyes, which follow my every move. I must flee the city before I can safely undress the Box. I shall write again soon, Brother, perhaps when I am a rich man.

With fervor, your brother,
George

%right%The Alta California
<]