!! Basic Role-Playing

||
||Designer(s)		||Greg Stafford and Lynn Willis	||
||Publisher(s)		||Chaosium								||
||Publication date	||1980, 1981								||
||Genre(s)			||Universal								||
||System				||&nbsp;									||

Basic Role-Playing — универсальная система настольной ролевой игры, созданная Грегом Стаффордом и Линном Уиллисом, основанная на игромеханике, впервые использованной в правилах фэнтезийной ролевой игры RuneQuest. BRP служит системой большинства игр, изданных компанией Chaosium: Stormbringer, Worlds of Wonder, Call of Cthulhu, Superworld, Ringworld, Elfquest, Hawkmoon, Elric! и Nephilim. Pendragon также основан на BRP, но имеет достаточное число механических отличий, чтобы можно было говорить об существовании собственной системы.

BRP является первой универсальной ролевой игрой — она вышла на шесть лет раньше GURPS и примерно на 20 лет раньше, чем d20 System.

Как отдельные правила Basic Role-Playing вышел в 1980 году. Два года спустя он вошёл в коробку игры Worlds of Wonder. Буклет с правилами тажке входил в первую коробку Call of Cthulhu в качестве механики создания персонажа.

Как и в других универсальных системах (GURPS, Hero System, Savage Worlds), в BRP для любого конфликта используется единый метод разрешения — бросок на процентнике на меньшее число. Большинство игр на BRP содержали модификации правил для большего соответствия миру и жанру. Например, в Call of Cthulhu максимальное значение навыка ограничено 100 %, в то время как в Stormbringer навыки выше 100 % доступны практически для всех персонажей.

В 2004 году Chaosium через печать по требованию выпустила серию книг по Basic Roleplaying — Players Book, Magic Book, Creatures Book и Gamemaster Book — с целью закрепить свои авторские права на систему. В 2008 году вышла Deluxe Basic Roleplaying, единая книга, доводящая правила RuneQuest 3-й редакции до статуса универсальной системы, которая была издана как в бумажном виде, так и в формате pdf.

----

Basic Role-Playing (BRP) is a role-playing game system which originated in the fantasy-oriented RuneQuest role-playing game rules. A percentile skill-based system, BRP was used as the basis for most of the games published by Chaosium, including Stormbringer, World of Wonder, Call of Cthulhu, Superworld, Ringworld, Elfquest, Hawkmoon, Elric!, and Nephilim. Pendragon (acquired in 1998 by Green Knight Publishing, and 2005 by White Wolf), while related, has sufficiently different mechanics that it can be seen as a separate system. The BRP standalone booklet was first released in 1980. Two years later it became part of the Worlds of Wonder boxed set. The first edition boxed set of Call of Cthulhu included the booklet as its character creation rules. Greg Stafford and Lynn Willis are credited as the authors.

BRP is similar to other generic systems such as GURPS, Hero System or Savage Worlds in that it uses a simple resolution method which can be broadly applied. In this case an attempt to roll under a certain number with percentile dice. Each incarnation of the BRP rules has changed or added to the core ideas and mechanics, so that games are not identical. For example, in Call of Cthulhu, skills may never be over 100%, while in Stormbringer skills in excess of 100% are encouraged for those who follow Law.

In 2004, Chaosium published the Basic Roleplaying monographs (note that they dropped the hyphenation in the later products). Books with a quick and inexpensive printed format of tape binding and printed cardstock covers, the four monographs (Players Book, Magic Book, Creatures Book, and Gamemaster Book) were printed in order to assert Chaosium's copyrights in the run-up to the publishing and distribution of Deluxe Basic Roleplaying, a game system that is essentially RuneQuest 3rd Edition but with additions to allow play in other genres.

Chaosium has plans for a new release of BRP in the Fall of 2007 as a stand alone project.

!!! History

The BRP was the RPG industry's first attempt at a truly generic rule system. Something that preceded GURPS by six years and the d20 System SRD by nearly 20.

The core rules were originally written by Steve Perrin as part of his ground-breaking game RuneQuest. It was Greg Stafford's idea to simplify the rules (eliminating such things as Strike Ranks and Hit Locations) and issue them in a 16 page booklet called Basic Role Playing. Over the years several others, including Sandy Petersen, Lynn Willis, Steve Henderson and undoubtedly many more, contributed to their final form.

The BRP was notable for being the first role-playing game system to introduce a full skill system to characters regardless of their profession. This was developed in RuneQuest but was also later adopted by the more skill orientated Call of Cthulhu.

BRP was conceived of as being a sort of genre-generic engine around which any sort of RPG could be played, much like GURPS and the D20 system have become today. In order to underscore this, Chaosium produced the Worlds of Wonder supplement, which contained the generic rules and several specific applications of those rules to given genres. Superworld, specifically, began as a portion of the Worlds of Wonder product.

!!! Rules System

BRP was developed from a core set of attributes similar to the original Dungeons & Dragons (D&D). So Strength, Constitution, Size, Intelligence, Power, Dexterity and Charisma (or Appearance) replaced the D&D norms. From that was evolved a structurally simulationist system. Therefore hit points, which increase with experience in D&D were based on the average of Size and Constitution and were functionally stable for the life of the character. Skills, using a d100, rather than the D&D d20, were used to simulate the way that people learn skills. Experience points were replaced by an experience check, rolling higher than your current skill on a d100. This created a learning curve that leveled out the higher a skill was. The Resistance Table, in which two attributes are compared and a chance of success read from a table, is the ugly duckling of the BRP system. It is potentially an entire system mechanic on its own and yet many say it sits oddly with the existing skill system.

Armour, which had been merged with defence in D&D was broken out. The act of parrying was a skill, the ability of the armor to absorb damage was a separate function. The last major element of many BRP games is one that is shared with Tunnels and Trolls (T&T), which originated this, which is that there is no difference between the player character race systems and the monster or opponents. By varying ability scores the same system is used for a human hero as a trollish villain. This approach also led quickly, as it did in T&T, to players often playing a wide range of non-human characters and game worlds that were deeply pluralist.

!!! Licenced Games

Chaosium was an early adopter of licensing out its BRP system to other companies, something that was unique at the time they began but rather commonplace now thanks to the d20 licenses. This places the BRP in the notable position of being one of the first products to allow other game companies to develop games or game aids for their work. Companies such as Green Knight and Pagan Publishing earliest works were built to support Chaosism's games.

Other, non-Chaosium games have used BRP for its core rules. Other Suns, published by Fantasy Games Unlimited (FGU), used them under license. In addition, Corum, a supplement to the Stormbringer rules, was published in the fall of 2001 by Darcsyde Productions.

BRP was used (through a special arrangement with Swedish gaming guru Fred Malmberg) as the base for the highly successful Swedish game Drakar och Demoner from Target Games.

BRP was also licensed to Oriflam in France to create a French language second edition of the Hawkmoon game called Hawkmoon, Nouvelle Edition. This version updated the original Hawkmoon mechanics to more closely parallel those in the newer Elric! game as well as adding sophisticated new rule systems specific to the setting (e.g. Mutations and 'Weird Science').

BRP was also licensed to Japanese companies, BRP games in Japanese are Houkago Kaiki Club (1997, school life and horror, Hobby Japan), Genom Seed (2004, mutant action, Shinkigensha) and Taitei no Ken RPG (2007, SciFi-jidaigeki, based on movie of the same title, Shinkigensha).

!!! Awards

The BRP itself has been the recipient, via its games, of many awards. Most notably was the 1981 Origins award for Best Roleplaying Rules for Call of Cthulhu. Other editions of Call of Cthluhu have also won Origins awards including the Hall of Fame award. The BRP Character Generation software has also won awards for its design.