!! Quest for Glory I: So You Want to Be a Hero

[>
Don't we all want to be Heroes?
<]

!!! Story Line

A graduate from the Famous Adventurer's Correspondence School enters the seemingly quaint valley of Spielburg from the East after an avalanche blocks the only entrance to the valley. This aspiring Hero first meets the Sheriff of Spielburg and the goon Otto. The Hero finds several interesting places in the town to visit. They include the tavern and the guild hall, where he learns much more about Spielburg. The magic shop nearby is a place for the Hero to buy magical supplies should he need them.

The Hero soon learns that the son and daughter of the Baron of Spielburg, who are respectively named Barnard and Elsa, have been missing for a very long time. He sees this as an opportunity to be actually known as a Hero by many people for the first time. The Hero remembers that rewards have been posted in the guild hall for the finding of Barnard, Elsa, and the Brigand Leader. He is also told of a prophecy about a Hero coming to do so. Until something can be done, the Baron of Spielburg continues to be haunted by his terrible loss.

As an adventurer, the Hero is bound to meet all sorts of characters in his travels. There are some that are friendly, like a fox in a trap who turns out to have very important information for the Hero. Some can be suspicious, including a thief named Bruno who gives information for a price depending on the value of the information. There are even magical characters, especially the Wizard named Erasmus and his Familiar named Fenris. The Hero is pleased to discover that they love magical games and telling jokes.

No aspiring Hero can become experienced without dangerous encounters with the monsters in the valley of Spielburg, whether they are humanoid or not. The valley is known to have the Saurus and its vicious relative, the Saurus Rex. Others include the dumb but strong Ogre and the hammer-wielding Troll. The Brigands endangering Spielburg are also bound to run into the Hero. The monsters in Spielburg range from the simple, like the Goblin, to the deadly, such as the Cheetaur.

Besides infiltrating the hidden fortress of the Brigands, the Hero has to deal with the other major bane of Spielburg: the Ogress named Baba Yaga. He knows that he must deal with her from what the prophecy says. His first encounter is out of curiosity, but he has to meet her again, no matter what the risks are. What makes her scary and intimidating is her insatiable appetite for food that an average person would find disgusting. If the Hero can find a clever way to force her out of the valley and save Spielburg, then his wish to be a renowned Hero will come true.

!!! Commentary

Quest for Glory is a Sierra adventure game series that had been introduced the latest in the 1980s. It's also one that was renamed due to legal disputes. The first Quest for Glory game was originally called Hero's Quest. However, there was already a fantasy board game of an almost identical name released at the time. Consequently, the name of the computer game had to be changed to Quest for Glory. It was done so for the sequel as well as its VGA re-release in 1992 after being designated "Adventure Game of the Year, 1990" in Computer Gaming World.

The first Quest for Glory game has several noticeable, even humorous, references to things outside the QfG world. For instance, the name of the valley as well as the Baron are derived from famous film director Steven Spielberg. The bum in the town alley mentions an apple cider called "Amblin Entertainment," which is obviously a real-life film business. Players who are familiar with the film Monty Python and the Holy Grail will be surprised to see a gargoyle in the game asking three questions to decide whether to let someone pass. Interestingly, Baba Yaga is a well-known fictional character in European fairy tales.

What makes Quest for Glory unique is that it's a hybrid of a typical Sierra adventure game and a hardcore role-playing game. The result is an RPG with characters who are developed and memorable instead of forgotten later. Erasmus and Fenris are great examples of this, because they appear in the later games of the series. The minor characters in the game can still be amusing, like the Meeps and the Faeries. Another character who will be seen often later is Erana, although the Hero hasn't met her at this point. He only visits her safe haven called Erana's Peace in QfG1.

While Quest for Glory I: So You Want to Be a Hero was not the first QfG game that introduced me to the series, it was still a fun one to play. I liked the simple arcade-style combat with the monsters and taking any money on them afterwards. Conversations with the characters were also neat, because a topic can lead to several subtopics for the Hero to ask about. The other features of Quest for Glory that I also found special include the options to sleep, practice skills, and buy supplies. The best part was that it still had the Sierra adventure game interface I was so familiar with.

I do like the game very much, because the main character is someone that the player can really be interested in. Like protagonists in other Sierra games, the Hero is someone who overcomes obstacles and faces hasty situations. I love QfG1 and the series as a whole because it's has much more than a typical adventure game from Sierra. The combination of puzzle solving and character development makes the series a fantastic one. Lori and Corey Cole truly deserve recognition for their creativity in developing this game series.

!!! Adventure Report Card

||
||Story||3.5||
||Characters||4.5||
||Gameplay||5.0||
||Puzzles||4.0||
||Technical||5.0||
||Difficulty||3.0||
||Amusement||3.5||
||Overall||4.071||

Note: The ratings for the original and remake versions of the game are decided separately before picking a middle value.

!!! Additional Facts

* Baba Yaga is an actual European fairy tale character who lives in a chicken hut and eats children.
* The land of Spielburg is based on a German setting.
* The box cover of the original features the Hero facing a Saurux Rex. The box cover of the remake features the Hero and a big green dragon.
* There are only two notable differences in geography between the original and remake versions of QfG1. Unlike the remake, the original version has two screens in the Troll cave instead of one. Plus, the original does have a north exit in the graveyard.

!!! Easter Eggs

* The guildmaster mentions "two guys from Andromeda." It is a reference to the two designers of Space Quest.
* The dry goods store owner is reading a book called "Quest for Glory: A Hero's Death."
* As mentioned above, there are references to Amblin Entertainment and Steven Spielburg.
* Earl from the TV show Dinosaurs may be seen at random in a particular forest screen somewhere to the east of town.
* As mentioned above, the gargoyle asking three questions is based on a scene from the film Monty Python and the Holy Grail.
* At Mirror Lake, a submarine may sometimes appear as a reference to Codename: Iceman as well as a creature from EcoQuest.
* The Three Stooges appear in the Brigand fortress' cafeteria.