!! История

(:childlist:)

* Вступление в Федерацию (1-30)
** Затмение
** Массовая миграция с Земли
** Слабый лидер умирает от старости
** Падение Земного Королевства

----

* -1 - 2	Скруджу 32, он становится мультимиллионером и покупает банк в Вайтхорсе, Юкон. Он начинает строить маленькую финансовую империю, к 2 году, в 35, он становится миллиардером.
* 2			Скруджу 35, он возвращается в Скотию, чтобы забрать сестер Матильду и Гортиензию с собой в Союз. Также во 2 году, в Дисмал Даунс в возрасте 67 лет умирает отец Скруджа - Фергус. Скрудж, Матильда и Гортензия остаются последними в клане. Скрудж поселяется в небольшой деревушке Даксбург, Калисота, которую он выбирает в качестве своего дома.
* 4			Рождение Атоса Сидорова.
* 4			Рождение Геннадия Комова.
* 9			Начало строительства большой шахты к центру Земли.
* 9 - 30	Пока его сестры остаются в Даксбурге и управляют его империей, Скрудж в 42-63 путешествует по миру, распространяя свою империю на все континенты.
* после	10	Создание нуль-Т полигона на планете Радуга.	(Радуга)
* 12		Создание Группы Свободного Поиска (ГСП).
* до 13		Открытие Яйлы.
* до 13		Открытие Пандоры.
* 17		Открытие Августом Бадером искусственных спутников Владиславы.
* 18		События в комнате № 18 Аньюдинской школы. Подготовка к побегу на Венеру.
* 18		Исследование профессором Карпенко «бактерии жизни». Термин «биоблокада» приобретает новый смысл.
* 19		Начало проекта «Венера». (Венера)
* 19		Возвращение планетолета «Таймыр».
* 24		Осуществление проекта «Венера».	(Венера)
* 24		Запуск Коллектора Рассеянной Информации (КРИ).
* 24		Великое Кодирование: первый опыт по записи личности человека на электронные носители. Частично удался.
* 27		Высадка на Владиславе (Атос Сидоров, Август Бадер). Открытие второго заброшенного города Странников. (Владислава)
* 27		Поль Гнедых устраивается работать на мясо-молочную ферму.
* 28		Открытие Леониды. Экспедиция под руководством Геннадия Комова впервые в истории обнаруживает инопланетный разум.
* 28		Поль Гнедых — охотник. (Пандора)
* 29		Под руководством Горбовского проходит первый контакт с инопланетянами (Леонида).
* 30		Обнаружение разума на Тагоре. (Тагора)
* 30		Скруджу 63, он становится самым богатым человеком в мире, но из-за противоречий он не поддерживает связи с семьей в течении следующих 17 лет. В этом году он впервые встречает 10-летнего племянника Дональда и его сестру-близнеца Деллу. (Возможно это единственная встреча Скруджа с его племянницей Деллой.)
* после	30	Начало деятельности Института экспериментальной истории (прогрессоров) в Арканаре.	(Арканар)
* 32		Установление контакта с Тагорой, расшифровка тагорянского языка (профессор Сугимото). Налаживание дипломатических отношений. (Тагора)
* 34		Открытие разумной цивилизации «амазонок» (Горбовский). (Пандора)
* 34		Исчезновение звездолета ГСП «Пилигрим».
* 36		Проведение операции «Зеркало» (засекреченные учения по отражению возможной агрессии высокоразвитой цивилизации — в частности, Странников). 36-38
* до 37		Создание Комиссии по Контролю (КОМКОН-2).
* 37		Рождение Максима Каммерера.
* 37		Открытие группой Б.Фокина в системе ЕН 9173 «Саркофага-инкубатора», оставленного Странниками, внутри которого находились тринадцать оплодотворенных яйцеклеток вида хомо сапиенс. Начало «Дела подкидышей».
* 37		Эксперимент группы «Йормала» (погружение в чёрную дыру).
* 38		Прекращение дипломатических отношений между Землей и Тагорой в связи с «делом подкидышей».
* 38		Рождение подкидышей (в том числе Льва Абалкина и Корнея Яшмаа) — 6 Октября 38 года.
* после	40	Катастрофа на Радуге.
* 41		Рождение Майи Глумовой.
* 42		Скруджу 75, он устал и впал в депрессию и решает уйти на пенсию.
* после	45	Открытие планеты Саула и ее цивилизации. Обнаружение «машин» — артефактов Странников. Исчезновение С.Репнина. (Саула)
* 47		Скруджу 80, он встречает своего племянника Дональда, которому теперь 27, и своих внучатых племянников, детей Деллы, Билли, Вилли, и Дилли. Он решает возобновить активность и вскоре водоворот событий затягивает его и привлечет внимание родственников, старых и новых друзей и врагов.
* до 52		Создание Комитета Галактической безопасности.
* до 52		Открытие Саракша.
* после 52	Резня в Арканаре. (Арканар)
* 53		Начало деятельности Сикорски как сотрудника Совета Галактической Безопасности на Саракше. (Саракш)
* 55		Скруджу 88, благодарю Дональду он мирится и воссоединяется со своей сестрой Матильдой.
* 57		Прибытие Максима Каммерера на Саракш. Уничтожение сети излучателей.	(Саракш)
* до 60		Открытие Гиганды.
* 60		Официальный контакт с Голованами. (Саракш)
* 60		Операция «Человек и Голованы». Руководитель-исполнитель — Лев Абалкин. (Саракш)
* 61		Создание теории вертикального прогресса (Геннадий Комов).
* до 62		Открытие планеты Надежда.
* 62		Операция «Ковчег». Попытка экспедиции Геннадия Комова войти в контакт с цивилизацией Ковчега. (Ковчег)
* 62		Постепенное прекращение деятельности ГСП.
* до 63		Начало прогрессорской деятельности Яшмаа на Гиганде. (Гиганда)
* 63		Участие Льва Абалкина с голованом Щекном в операции «Мертвый мир» на Надежде. (Надежда)
* 63		Восстановление дипломатических отношений с Тагорой.
* 64		Начало прогрессорской деятельность Льва Абалкина на Гиганде. (Гиганда)
* 67		Рождение Тойво Глумова.
* 67		В 100 лет Скрудж умирает, прожив жизнь полную приключений.
* 70		«Дело Рип Ван Винклей»: внезапные исчезновения и возвращения людей. 2170-80
* 75		Голован Щекн становится членом миссии Голованов на Земле.
* 78		Убийство Льва Абалкина, отставка Сикорски.
* 81		Эпидемия фукамифобии. 2181—2185
* 83		Прогрессорская деятельность Максима Каммерера в столице Островной империи на Саракше. (Саракш)
* 84		Доклад А.Мебиуса о «Синдроме пингвина».
* 85		Принятие поправки к Закону об обязательной биоблокаде.
* до 90		Ликвидация земной системы самодвижущихся дорог, авиации (птерокаров), связи на основе радиоволн.
* 91		Прогрессорская деятельность Тойво Глумова в Арканаре. 2191-93 (Арканар)
* 93		События на Тиссе. (Тисса)
* 94		Начало работы Тойво Глумова в Комкон-2.
* 94		Меморандум «Рабочая модель прогрессорской деятельности Странников в системе человечества Земли». Смерть Айзека Бромберга.
* 95		Начало работы Тойво Глумова по теме «Визит старой дамы».
* 98		Завершение прогрессорской операции на Гиганде. (Гиганда)
* 99		Большое Откровение. Официальный контакт людей и люденов.

----

!!! 10,000,000,000 BC.

* Unknown – Yivo, a planet-sized alien from another universe, dwells alone in the emptiness of space.
* 17 years before the Big Bang – Nibblonians start appearing in our universe.
* The Big Bang – The Universe is created (again) while the previous universe's versions of Fry, Bender and Professor Farnsworth watch in their Forward time machine. The cowboy universe is also created (Only this one parallel universe is known or thought to exist until the events of "The Farnsworth Parabox").
** Yivo notices the Big Bang and realizes shklee is not alone.
* Milliseconds after the Big Bang – The evil Brain Spawn come into being and begin their war against the Nibblonians that rages until the 31st century.
* Eons ago – The life-force known as Chi that permeated the Universe created an upwelling of life, but then receded, resulting in the extinction of countless species.
** Arms Race of Evolution begins.

!!! Creation of Earth — 1899 A.D.

ca. 4.5 billion years ago – The Sun, Earth and the Moon are created (in one reality, the previous versions of Fry, Bender and Professor Farnsworth watch).
ca. 500 million years ago – An Earth fish crawls onto land (in one reality it is immediately killed by a previous universe's version of Bender).
65.5 million years ago – The Brain Spawn cause the extinction of Earth's dinosaurs while (in one reality, the previous versions of Fry, Bender and Professor Farnsworth watch).
29,000,000 years ago – Nimbala is emperor of Zuban 5.
ca. 40,000 years ago to 1783 A.D. – The previous versions of Fry, Bender and Professor Farnsworth watch the Neanderthals in North America killed by Paleo-Indians (in one reality, they do not watch this).
30,000 years ago Homo sapiens drive the Neanderthals from the Neander Valley. Neanderthals settle in a nearby glacier along with several prehistoric creatures.
3500 B.C. – Cats from Thuban 9 arrive in Egypt where they are worshipped like gods. They make the Egyptians build the Great Pyramid of Giza as a giant energy transfer device.
1351 B.C. – Bender steals a sarcophagus from Egyptians.
ca. 1000 B.C. – The people of Osiris 4 visit Ancient Egypt and learn how to build pyramids, travel through space, and how to prepare their dead so as to scare Abbott and Costello.
274 B.C. – Nibbler is born.
1500s – Leonardo from Planet Vinci visits Earth and though considered stupid in his home world, he becomes a genius on Earth. Before he finishes painting the Mona Lisa, it is stolen by a time travelling Bender. Eventually leaves Earth again for his home planet.
1600s – The previous versions of Fry, Bender and the Professor watch (in one reality) the pilgrims arrive in America, and get taken over by the British.
1770s – "Minuteman" Yancy Fry fights "Commies" (according to Fry's father) in the American Revolution (this was viewed by previous versions of Fry, Bender and the Professor).
1775 A.D.
17 April Fry, Leela, Bender and the Professor appear here after licking George Washington's head.
The Continental Congress have a secret meeting where they decide that the country's official joke state will be New Jersey. The four ask the Congress for help on finding David Farnsworth, the counterfeiter. They point them to Benjamin Franklin's printing shop in Philadelphia.
The four arrive in Philadelphia by horse carriage to find out that David was Benjamin's apprentice, and that he ran away from him. They assume he must have escaped to Paul Revere's shop in Boston, since there weren't a lot of people in America then.
The five arrive in Boston by robot carriage to find David hiding in Paul's foundry. The Professor knocks him out hard (perhaps too hard) and they destroy the counterfeit money without using a lantern from the Old North Church, thus preventing the British from stopping the revolution.

Fry accidentally kills his grandfather in the past

!!! 1900 A.D. — 1999 A.D.

ca.1900 A.D. – Romanticorp Gwen's family starts making candy hearts out of earwig honey and bone meal
ca. 1920 A.D. – Philo Farnsworth works to pioneer the Television.
ca. 1930s – Hubert J. Farnsworth kills Hitler/Farnsworth attempts to kill Adolf Hitler, but misses and hits Eleanor Roosevelt instead.
Fry, Leela, Bender and Hermes appear in a bar, in a Head trip, after Fry licked Herbert Hoover's head. They return after getting shot at.
1947 A.D. – Time travelling Planet Express crew create the Roswell UFO incident. Philip J. Fry accidentally kills the man he believed to be his grandfather. Fry then impregnates his grandmother, becoming his own grandfather. Also, Bender's head is left behind in this time period, it stays in the dirt for over 1000 years.
1948 A.D. – Yancy Fry, Sr. (Philip's father and simultaneously his son) is born.
1960s – Professor Farnsworth, Zoidberg and Dr. Amy Wong meet Andy Warhol here after time traveling through the effects of H2OGfat laced with Opal from Lyndon Johnson's head. They return after a moment.
1968 A.D. – Zoidberg inspires Andy to paint a painting called 'Unwelcome Guest' in 1968.
1971 A.D. – Yancy Fry, Jr. (Philip's older brother and simultaneously his grand-son) is born.
1974 A.D. – Philip J. Fry is born at Brooklyn Pre-Med Junior Hospital.
1980 A.D. – Philip J. Fry starts wanting a robot for a best friend.
1988 A.D. – Philip J. Fry hides his lucky 7-leafed clover from his brother.
ca.1994 A.D. – Fry fails to graduate from Coney Island Community College.
1996 A.D – Fry's dog Seymour Asses is born.
Seymour.jpg
1997 A.D.
Last power failure at Applied Cryogenics
Fry finds Seymour in a New York street after a pizza delivery to "Seymour Asses" which turned out to be a crank call.
1998 A.D.
UntitledThe United States Air Force launches the USAF Flying Destiny.
The FCC launches the V-Chip.
The Flying Destiny and the V-Chip are fused in a collision that will create the V-GINY.
1999
Philip J. Fry accidentally spills beer on the control console at New York FOX station WNYW, knocking Single Female Lawyer off the air.
Fry's bank account is left with a balance of 93 cents, which after one thousand years of gathering interest, becomes $4.3 billion.
31 December – Nibbler sends Fry on a fake pizza delivery to I. C. Wiener at Applied Cryogenics.

!!! 2000 A.D. — 2099 A.D. ==

Fry is frozen for 1000 years

Al Gore's election votes are destroyed and George W. Bush wins the 2000 elections.

Philip J. Fry II, Yancy's son is born and named after his uncle

Philip J. Fry II becomes the first man on Mars and becomes a big success

FXJKHR the 60th President

Decapodians come to Earth.

The Fairness in Hell Act is introduced
2000 A.D
1 January – Seconds into the new year, Philip J. Fry is cryogenically frozen due to the actions of Lord Nibbler/his future self.
Using a time code tattooed on his ass, Fry returns from the year 3007 back to New York and lives in the upstairs storage room of Panucci's Pizza. Bender also travels back in time to kill Fry but loses him.
Seymour sees Fry frozen in cryogenics tube.
Fry's family calls off the search for their missing son.
8 November — Bender attempts to kill someone with the same name as Fry. All of Al Gore's votes are destroyed after Bender accidentally shoots them causing George W. Bush to win the election.
2000s
(presumably early) Baywatch: The Movie becomes the first movie shot entirely in slow-motion, and wins Pamela Anderson the Oscar.
Atlanta moves offshore, but after over-developing, sinks to the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean and is lost until the early 31st century.
Philip J. Fry, II is born.
2001 A.D.
The movie Jury Duty II: Trouble on the Hubble starring Pauly Shore released.
Fry's ex-girlfriend Michelle leaves her husband and family behind and freezes herself for 1000 years, unaware that Fry has also been frozen.
Brain Spawn start 1000 year quest to obtain all knowledge in the universe.
2002 A.D. – A barge filled with New York's garbage starts floating around the oceans of Earth for 50 years, as no country will take it - not even that really filthy one.
2003 A.D – 2005 A.D.
Lucy Liu is named People magazine's "Sexiest Woman of the Year."
Fry gets a job at an aquarium working with a narwhal called Leelu.
2006 A.D. – Britney Spears becomes queen of something.
2007 A.D. – The movie Charlie's Angels III: The Legend Of Charlie's Gold is released.
2008 A.D.
Stop and Drop becomes America's favorite brand of Suicide Booth.
The Svalbard Global Seed Vault in Norway begins preserving the seeds of every plant on Earth. Sometime after, the Germ Warfare Repository opens beside it.
2010 A.D.
The Loch Ness monster is revealed to be a log with a Halloween mask stapled to it.
Leelu is released into the wild and Fry searches for her with Mr. Panucci's cousin Leroy.
2012 A.D. – 2018 A.D.
War of 2012, in which Conan O'Brien loses his legs. Its name may be a pun on The War of 1812.
Fry locates Leelu and nearly takes her home but releases her after realizing she is with a male narwhal. Fry returns to New York. Bender blows up Panucci's Pizza in an attempt to kill Fry, but only ends up burning off Fry's hair and damaging his larynx, altering his voice. Fry then freezes himself to return to the future, living under the name "Lars Fillmore". Bender also returns to the future, believing to have killed Fry.
Seymour is killed and fossilized as a result of the Panucci's Pizza explosion.
2019 A.D. – 2031 A.D. – Project Satan initiated to create the world's most evil automobile. Calculon, who was then a mindless construction robot arm, is infected with automotive lycanthropy.
2032 A.D. – 2037 A.D. – Philip J. Fry II becomes first man on Mars.
2038 A.D. – 2051 A.D. – Earth's petroleum reserves run out.
2052 A.D. – 2062 A.D. – New Yorkers launch their garbage into space, ending the voyage of the garbage barge.
2063 A.D. – 2078 A.D.
Giant blocks of ice start being dropped into the ocean to combat global warming.
Lucy Liu again named People magazine's "Sexiest Woman of the Year."
2079 A.D. – 2099 A.D.
Cyborgs enslave humanity.
Giant carrots enslave humanity.

!!! 2100 — 2499

2113 – All ancient satellites are swept up as garbage.
2159 – Establishment of the Central Bureaucracy.
ca.2200
Pine trees become extinct.
Kidnappster begins holding Lucy Liu's Head prisoner.
2200s
Decapodians (Zoidberg's species) arrive on Earth.
Decapodians eat the anchovy species into extinction.
Cast of Star Trek: The Original Series does some musical reunion specials; "Welshie" added to cast to replace Scotty, as James Doohan can't yodel.
Church of Trek soars in global popularity. Germany re-named "Nazi Planet Episode Land" as a result. The Church's popularity threatens world leaders, leading to the Star Trek Wars (not to be confused with the Star Wars Trek) and banning of the Church and the show; only remaining copies rocketed to Omega III.
The ruins of Old New York progressively decay underground, and many of the upper-city's sewer lines are routed through or near them. Eventually, radioactive waste and good ol' American feces turns sewer-dwelling humans into a race of mutants.
2208 – Scientists increase the speed of light.
ca.2256 – Spears are used as weapons.
2266 – Michelle was originally supposed to be unfrozen.
2275 – Fairness in Hell Act of 2275 passed, stipulating that anyone who can defeat the Robot Devil in a fiddle contest wins a solid gold fiddle and may leave Robot Hell. Losers only get a smaller silver fiddle, and the Robot Devil may kill them at his discretion.
2300s
American Express ceases to exist.
By the year 3000, "getting twenty-fourth century" is a slang term similar to "getting medieval," implying that the 24th century was a notably primitive and/or violent era, at least by 31st century standards.
During the pilot episode, while Fry is frozen, after the first time the city is destroyed, medieval-like buildings appear, only to be destroyed shortly thereafter.
2308
The Nobel Peace prizes for the union between West and East Coast rappers is given, but then stolen by Bender who comes back in time.
At least Stockholm and New York (but presumably the rest of Earth) are destroyed by Bender. This is the first destruction of Earth while Fry was frozen. Later, perhaps in a different year, New York begins to rebuild itself as a medieval like society, but it gets destroyed again, probably also by Bender. Again later, New New York is built. Previous versions of Fry, Bender and the Professor watch all of this.
ca.2310 – Princess Flavia begins an affair with Basil.
2354 – Kwanzaabot begins giving the traditional Kwanzaa gift: a book entitled "What the Hell Is Kwanza?".
2400s – VISA ceases to exist.
2443 – The second coming of Jesus. For some unexplained reason, this results in most video cassettes being damaged.
2475 – Washington DC rededicated to Washington the Sweathog.

!!! 2500 — 2899

Mars University Founded

New New York in the 2850s
ca.2500 – New New York eliminates garbage problem.
2511 – The common cold is eradicated.
ca.2600 – Chapek 9 colonized by radical robot separatists; Robot Elders carved from meteorites.
2600s – New New York elects a supervillain governor who steals many world monuments and relocates them to Monument Beach, placing his face on Mount Rushmore.
2620 – Uranus is changed to Urectum, to end annoying joke.
2636 – Mars University founded.
ca.2700 – Cast of Star Trek: The Original Series leaves Earth.
27?? – Last ghosts of humans die off.
2790 – Bender's uncle Vladimir constructed; activated
2801 – Robot Santa Claus constructed; goes berserk.
2841 – (9 April) Professor Hubert Farnsworth is born in New New York City.
2849 – Prof. Farnsworth learns to read while still in diapers, evidently at age 8.
2850s – At this time Slurm is being sold as a medicinal tonic. Corruptatron runs for mayor.
2850s/60s– Prof. Farnsworth joins the Academy of Inventors which begins holding annual symposia.
2865– Sith Invasion.
2877 – Prof. Farnsworth finishes graduate school.
2881 – Prof. Farnsworth starts working for Mom's Friendly Robot Company.

!!! 2900 — 2999

The Land Titanic sets off.

The Sport-Utility Robot is invented.

Vergon 6 is mined hollow by DOOP.

Turanga Leela is born and left at the Orphanarium
2900 – Ogden Wernstrom given an A minus by Prof. Farnsworth.
2912
10 April – The Land Titanic sets off in New New York.
14 April – Only four days after setting off, the Land Titanic sinks, and two thousand people are killed.
2922 – Comedy film A Close Shaving starring Harold Zoid released.
2927
Prof. Farnsworth builds the fuel-inefficient sport-utility robot, the forerunner of all later robot designs until 3003.
The Professor meets Zoidberg on Triton and saves his life. The Professor thinks he caught Hypermalaria from the Methane Swamps and makes a pact with Zoidberg that if the symptoms of hypermalaria start happening to his body, Zoidberg would mercy kill him. However, the Professor actually catches Yetiism.
2931 – (Mother's Day) Prof. Farnsworth breaks up with Mom; leaves Mom's Friendly Robot Company.
2950 – (circa) Smell-O-Vision invented (& they said it would replace Television by 2000); Harold Zoid's career hits the skids.
2959 – Hermes Conrad is born.
2960
Dixie and Trixie become Slurm spokescreature Slurms MacKenzie's sidekicks.
Professor Fisherprice Shpeekenshpell proves that the cows say "moo".
2961 – Planet Express is founded, the first delivery crew, consisting of Lando Tucker, Candy, Lifter and Johnny is lost in the Bermuda Tetrahedron delivering cookies to Amanda Zant's niece. Johnny returns to Earth in an escape pod, but cannot remember what it was that took the others.
2962 – Educational film Bigfoot: Endangered Mystery! released.
2963 – A hurricane hits Kingston, Jamaica. There is a foot and a half of water damage. No casualties.
2970
Elzar begins his 20-plus year televised cooking show career by replacing Helmut Spargle.
Professor Hubert J. Farnsworth discovers Dark Matter could be used as fuel. Mom gets together with her ex-husband, Doctor Wernstrom.
2972
DOOP drills Vergon 6 and discovers it to be full of Dark Matter. They hire Mom to lead the mining of dark matter.
Mom uses Mom's Friendly Robot Company to make robot slaves, until Robot Lincoln ends slavery.
Turanga Munda and Turanga Morris marry each other.
2975 – Turanga Leela is born in the sewers of New New York City and left at an orphanarium, where she is assumed to be an alien.
2976 – Camp Rectifier begins "praying on the weak".
2979 – Dr. Amy Wong is born on Mars to Leo and Inez Wong.
2980 – The 2980 Olympics are held; Hermes Conrad competes for Earth in the limbo event, and a child imitating him fatally injures his back.
2981 – The last known Bone Vampire is killed. Species is declared extinct.
2983 – Decapodians begin the tradition of Claw-Plach.
2989 – Prof. Farnsworth begins culturing his clone, Cubert Farnsworth. Dwight Conrad is born the same week.
29?? – Bender Bending Rodriguez constructed, activated with a manufacturing defect. Inspector 5 approves him anyways. Hermes Conrad resigns from working for Mom's Friendly Robot Company and moves out of his house in Tijuana.
2992 – According to the Professor, Dr. Zoidberg begins working at Planet Express despite being a part of the company when it was founded in 2961
2991. Amy Wong receives an Employee of the Year award at Planet Express.

2993 – Hermes Conrad receives an Employee of the Year award at Planet Express.
2994 – Hermes receives his second Employee of the Year award at Planet Express.
2995
Scruffy receives an Employee of the Year award at Planet Express.
The movie Bagheart is released, featuring Langdon Cobb.
2996 – Hermes receives his third Employee of the Year award at Planet Express.
2997
Amy receives her second Employee of the Year award at Planet Express.
The movie The Greatest Bag on Earth is released, featuring Langdon Cobb.
2998 – Bender Bending Rodríguez's earliest memory, mistaken for his birth; Hermes receives again employee of the year award at Planet Express. Amy begins working at Planet Express as an intern for her physics class at "Mars University".
ca.2999 – The previous crew of the Planet Express are killed by space bees, eaten by a space wasp.
2999 – (31 December) Fry is un-frozen after 1000 years. He flees the implantation of his permanent career assignment chip and eventually meets up with Bender Bending Rodriguez. The two of them are pursued by Turanga Leela, who later has a change of heart and removes her own career chip.
2??? – The vast migration of Star Wars fans. Also known as the Star Wars trek.

!!! 3000 — 3099

!!! 3000

Fry is awakened after being frozen for 1 000 years.

Vergon 6 implodes as a result of DOOP's mining operations.

The Cruiseship Titanic is sucked into a black hole

Richard Nixon's head becomes the President of Earth.
January
(1st) Fry, Leela, and Bender are hired by Professor Hubert J. Farnsworth, owner of Planet Express (1ACV01).
(2nd or 3rd) The new crew's first mission to the moon (1ACV02)
February
(ca. 1st) Fry expected to find out where the owls are coming from and to find out who has been leaving out food
Fry moves out of Planet Express and moves in with Bender (1ACV03).
April
(before the 13th) Mom captures the Nibblonians for her Dark Matter farm in Alaska (BG).
(13th) – Vergon 6 implodes; Leela rescues Nibbler and has sex with Zapp Brannigan (1ACV04, BG).
April — August
Bender gains a brief period of fame on Chapek 9, until Fry and Leela convinces him to come with them back to Earth (1ACV05).
Fry briefly becomes a billionaire, but is robbed of his money by Mom's sons (1ACV06).
Fry briefly becomes the Emperor of the planet Trisol (1ACV07).
Garbage ball launched in 2052 returns and threatens to hit New New York City (1ACV08).
Bender joins Robotology and is sent to Robot Hell after sinning, however, a rescue mission by Fry and Leela gets him out again (1ACV09).
Cruise spaceship Titanic sucked into black hole (1ACV10).
August — November
Farnsworth's prize experiment, Guenter, ends in failure after deciding that he would rather be enrolled at a business school (1ACV11).
(8 September) Labor Day – Earth invaded by Omicronians; Earth President McNeal disintegrated (1ACV12).
Fry wins the ticket to the Slurm Factory and discovers the truth of Slurm (1ACV13).
Bender becomes for a brief period of time attached to Leela's emotions (2ACV01).
The dreaded El Chupanibre is sent into the Sub-sewer by Bender (2ACV01).
Zapp Brannigan accidentally destroys new DOOP headquarters (2ACV02).
November — December
November – Richard Nixon's head elected President of Earth (2ACV03).
December (near Xmas) – Robot Santa returns once more to wreck havoc on Earth, however, the Planet Express crew manages to send him back before he can get on with his havoc (2ACV04).

!!!! 3001

Cubert Farnsworth is released from his cloning tank

The second Omicronian invasion of Earth and the death of Free Waterfall Jr.
February — March
Shortly before 14 February (Valentine's Day) Fry, Amy and Zoidberg get in a terrible car crash on Europa, Fry's head is grafted to Amy's body (2ACV07).
Bender joins the Ultimate Robot Fighting League (2ACV08).
April
(9th) Cubert Farnsworth removed from cloning tank; designated Prof. Farnsworth's successor (2ACV10).
April — December
Hermes is put on paid vacation by Morgan Proctor, his temporary replacement after his attempts of promotion to grade 35 are ruined. He sorts out the Master IN Pile and gets demoted 2 grades for finishing 2 seconds early; he then gets promoted to grade 37 for noticing an error in Proctor's paperwork (2ACV11).
The Planet Express crew rediscover the lost underwater city of Atlanta (2ACV12).
Mother's Day – Earth robots revolt at Mom's instigation; called off the next morning.
Earth again invaded by Omicronians after their larva become major fast food sensation; Free Waterfall Jr. eaten.
The Professor invents the What-If Machine and later invents the Fing-Longer.
Earth successfully invades Spheron 1.
Bender's uncle Vladimir dies. Were-car curse is broken.
Fry's ex-girlfriend Michelle unfrozen.
Pauly Shore unfrozen for the 1000 year anniversary of Jury Duty II: Trouble on the Hubble
Zapp Brannigan crashes a space-going restaurant onto the Planet Amazonia
New New York v. Santa Bender case held. Santa Bender was to be executed at sundown.

!!!! 3002

January — July
Massive dark matter spill on the Plutonian penguin refuge. Free Waterfall, Sr. eaten by penguins.
Earth invaded by the Brain Spawn; defeated by Fry and the Nibblonians.
Dr. Zoidberg and Harold Zoid make the movie The Magnificent Three.
Martian natives kidnap Amy Wong. She is later released when the worthless "bead" their ancestors traded the planet for is revealed to be a valuable, enormous diamond. The Martians leave Mars and buy a nicer planet.
Around 15 May, New New York v. Fry and Bender case held. Both Fry and Bender are sent to the HAL Institute for Criminally Insane Robots.
Bend-Aid benefit concert for broken robots held in San Francisco.
Universe threatened by "time skips;" Prof. Farnsworth and the Globetrotters create a black hole to absorb damaging time radiation.
August
The What-If Machine is fine tuned.
(11th) Omicronians invade Earth yet again.
September
(21st) the Planet Express Crew travel back in time to Roswell, New Mexico in 1947.
(c. 22nd) Bender, Fry, Leela, and the Professor dig up Bender's head, which was buried for 1,055 years.
September — December
Three-time Grammy winner and teen singer Wendy found dead in her bathtub at the age of 18
Star Trek convention held on forbidden planet Omega 3; Welshie killed.

!!!! 3003

Leela discovers her true origins

Decapodians invade Earth

Fry makes a deadly deal with the Robot Devil
January — February
Kif and Leela's offspring are born.
Turanga Leela finds out her true origins.
February
(14th) (Valentine's Day) Bender dates the ship, dumps it, the ship doesn't take the break-up well and almost crashes itself into a quasar. The crew dumps their cargo of candy hearts into the quasar causing a mystical love radiation that spreads across the universe destroying many, many planets, including two gangster planets and a cowboy world.
February — December
Earth moved further from the sun to combat global warming, making the year one week longer– President Richard Nixon declares it Robot Party Week; Professor Farnsworth presented with the Polluting Medal of Pollution.
Earth v. Zoidberg case held. Zoidberg sentenced to death.
Decapodians invade Earth, briefly enslave humanity. Old Man Waterfall crushed.
Fry finds the fossilized remains of his dog, Seymour.
Zapp v. Fry, Bender and Leela case held. The case never reached a verdict.
Roboticon 3003 held in New New York; the advanced Robot 1-X model unveiled.

!!!! 3004 — 3006

3004
Fry and the Nibblonians defeat the Brain Spawn permanently by banishing them to an alternate pocket dimension.
Earth conquers the Spiderians of Tarantulon 6; Nixon's head refunds everyone $300.
The 3004 Olympics are held on Earth. Hermes Conrad competes for Jamaica in the five hundred meter limbo but is disqualified. Bender wins five gold medals in various fembots' bending events competing for the fictitious Grand Duchy of Robonia under the name Coilette.
Fry makes a deal with the Robot Devil and becomes a notable holophonor star. However, his holophonor opera Leela: Orphan of the Stars, while performed with great success in the first act, flops as a result of the Robot Devil's interference.
3005 – The 'Brainless Drones' who run the Box Network cancel Planet Express's license to make deliveries.

!!!! 3007

The Battle for Earth, 3007.
November — December
The people who cancelled Planet Express's license are fired for incompetence and then beaten up. Most die from their injuries and are ground into a pink powder used for various reasons. Planet Express are allowed back on the air. Hermes Conrad is decapitated and put into a jar.
Nudist alien scammers take control of Planet Express and eventually Earth and send Bender back in time to steal Earth's treasures.
Fry travels back in time to New York in 2000 to resume his old life
Leela falls in love with Lars Fillmore and nearly marries him. The wedding is called off after Hermes is decapitated again.
The population of Earth is evicted by the scammers. The crew go to Neptune, where they plan to fight back with Robot Santa Claus, Chanukah Zombie, and Kwanzaa-bot.
Battle for Earth, 3007 occurs. Earthicans win, thanks to Bender. Fleb and Schlump die.

The Anomaly

!!!! 3008

January — December
Lars and Nudar are killed, afterwards Lars is revealed to be a time paradox duplicate of Fry. Lars is buried at Orbiting Meadows.
Bender is ordered to go back in time to put the tattoo on Fry's butt in the first place, but due to Bender's illogical screw up of time, a rip in space is created.
A scientific conference is held about the Anomaly.
Bender becomes a member of the League of Robots, eventually becoming its leader.
Yivo begins forcing shklis tentacles through the Anomaly and mates with everyone in the universe, while previous versions of Fry, Bender and the Professor watch.
Yivo takes everyone in the universe out on a date and later proposes, causing everyone on Earth to move onto shkler.
Bender and his army drag Yivo into their universe to save humanity.
Yivo breaks up with humanity and leaves for shklis universe through the Anomaly, which closes forever.

Cornwood.
Dark Matter prices tripled and are $9.99 per ball. Mombil profits greatly.
Space Demolition Derby held. Planet Express ship wins.
Bender becomes insane from playing Dungeons & Dragons.
Professor Farnsworth infiltrates Mom's dark matter mine in Alaska to get revenge for being dumped by making dark matter useless as fuel, with the Anti-backwards crystal.
Cornwood is created and destroyed.
All dark matter everywhere is useless as fuel.
Professor Farnsworth harnesses Nibblonians as a temporary form of transportation.
The Planet Express ship is (and presumably other spacecraft are) converted to run on Whale Oil.

!!!! 3009

The Wormhole.
January — December
Mars Vegas was destroyed.
New Mars Vegas was built.
New member Leela and the other Feministas causing chaos with their protests and sabotages, including the murder of the then vice-president Agnew.
3009 Universal Poker Championship was held in New Mars Vegas. Bender wins with 5 kings due to the King of Beers card being accidentally mixed in with the deck.
Earth v. Feministas case was held resulting in the Feministas being put away.
Bender helps the Feministas escape from Maxi-Padlock.
Implosion of the Violet Dwarf Star was stopped by the Feministas.
The Violet Dwarf Star is revealed to be an Encyclopod egg, which later hatches and defeats the last known Dark One. End of the Evolutionary arms race. Green Age begins.
The Planet Express crew, Fry, Leela, Bender, Scruffy, Professor Farnsworth, Hermes, LaBarbara Conrad, Amy, Kif, Zoidberg (and possibly Nibbler), go through a wormhole.

!!!! 3010

The crew dies and are rebirthed (6ACV01).

The Forward time machine (6ACV07).

Robot dinosaurs fight (6ACV09).

Leela leads the Devolution Revolution (6ACV12).
June
The Planet Express crew and the Nimbus exit the Wormhole appearing in front of Earth and they crash land. Farnsworth brings the entire Planet Express crew, including Kif, LaBarbara, and Zapp back to life (6ACV01).
July
Planet XXX, Poopiter, and #!@€$!#%& are destroyed by the V-GINY (6ACV02).
The eyePhone came out and Mom zombified many of the buyers so they bought the next version of it (6ACV03).
Proposition ∞ passes and legalizes robosexual marriage (6ACV04).
The Professor and Fry discover Leonardo da Vinci's big secret (6ACV05).
Leonardo da Vinci is killed (6ACV05).
Bender finds out about his manufacturing defect and that he is not immortal like he thought. He and Hermes go on a search for Inspector #5, but ultimately gives up (6ACV06).
All information, both virtual and physical, about Inspector #5 is lost from the Central Bureaucracy (6ACV06).
The Professor invents a Forward time machine. However, before he, Fry and Bender could test it, all three of them are crushed and replaced by their time paradox duplicates, due to them having travelled so far forward in time when they tested it that they passed the end of the universe and ended up back at the beginning(6ACV07).
August
Earth briefly has its rotational energy stolen by Professor Morris Katz and other cats from Thuban 9. However, Amy Wong comes up with an idea to get the energy back by making the Earth rotate in the opposite direction that it was rotating before (6ACV08).
Amy Wong gets her doctorate in Applied Physics (6ACV08).
Professor Farnsworth discovers the fossilized skull of a missing link in the evolutionary chain of humans and names it Homo farnsworth. However, everybody at the museum where it is on display misinterpret it as proof that evolution is false (6ACV09).
The Professor gets upset with the ignorance of everybody on Earth and travels to a distant planetoid where he accidentally creates a new evolutionary chain of robotic lifeforms out of Nanobots that he invented. He and most of the crew stay there for about three days, although the robots percieve it as millions of years, and get arrested for crimes against science. The trial ends when the robots evolve some more and they are allowed to go home (6ACV09).
Pofessor Farnsworth invents The Mind-Switcher and a bunch of people briefly switch minds before realising that those who once had changed never can change back. With a mathematical theorem, the Globetrotters finally realise how to switch everything back to normal (6ACV10).
The crew go to the 3010 Comic-Con Intergalactic (6ACV11).
Matt Groening and David X. Cohen's new show, Futurella is canceled.
Lrrr tries to take over Earth, but ends up losing a costume contest. Bender won with his Leela costume.
Lrrr is then kicked out of the house by his wife, Ndnd and is forced to live at Planet Express. After getting horn extensions and having a brief affair with Grrrl, he gets Orson Welles' head to help him fake an invasion of Earth, so Ndnd will take him back. However, the fake becomes too good and Lrrr ends up enslaving humanity. He eventually confesses to Ndnd, and they leave after taking part in Rrrmrrrmrrrfrrrmrrr or Consequences (6ACV11).
September
Planet Express makes their 100th delivery (a nitroglycerin soufflé) to Mrs. Astor. During the delivery, Fry accidentally reveals that Leela is a mutant and she is banished to the sewers; for harboring her, the entire crew, except for Bender, get sent there with her.
Leela unites the mutants of New New York's sewers and they rebel against the surface in the Devolution Revolution. In the end, mutants are allowed to be seen on the surface, and Mrs. Astor is reunited with her husband who had mutated during the sinking of the Land Titanic (6ACV12).

!!!! 3011

The Planet Express crew discovers a four-dimensional whale in the Bermuda Tetrahedron (6ACV15).

Bender dies, but is shortly thereafter brought back to life (6ACV19).

The Planet Express crew forms Plan Am, a commercial airline (6ACV20).

Leela receives a Slurmee for her show (6ACV21).
June
The Robot Mafia attend a wedding. Planet Express deliver a new set of clamps to Clamps.
Bender sneaks in and falls in love with Bella. As they make out, he witnesses the mafia maul Calculon.
Bender snitches on the mafia to the Earth Bureau of Investigation resulting in E.B.I. v. Donbot at the Battery Park Integrated Circuit Court. The Donbot wins when Calculon claims his injuries were self-inflicted, and he is released knowing that Bender snitched on him.
Bender is taken into a witness relocation program by the E.B.I. Clamps replaces him him at Planet Express, in order to find and clamp Bender.
Planet Express makes a delivery of rope to the Moon. They find someone who looks like Bender who calls himself Billy West.
Clamps tries to kill Billy, but he is defeated by Zoidberg. Despite this, Billy is then shot and killed by Bella.
The crew return home and find out that Billy wasn't actually Bender, who had actually been relocated to the pizzeria across the street. He rejoins the company.
50th Anniversary of the loss of the First Planet Express Crew. The Current Crew is sent on a mission to retrieve a monument for a memorial party from Xenotaph 3.
Leela's actions cause the Planet Express Ship to be destroyed by a Four-dimensional space whale and the crew to be eaten, sans Dr. John A. Zoidberg who returns to Earth.
Leela pilots the space whale back to Earth with her obsession to completing her delivery. The First Planet Express crew is returned to Earth safely, without aging a day, except for Lando Tucker.
July
Philip J. Fry joins the New New York Police Department.
He stops Pickles' plan to steal the Maltese Liquor, and arrest him.
He is fired from the force for tipping off Bender about his future heist.
The Professor invents the Banach-Tarski Dupla-Shrinker, and Bender accidentally creates millions of duplicates that threaten to destroy Earth (6ACV17).
The duplicates leave Earth forever (6ACV17).
The symptoms of Professor Hubert J. Farnsworth's Yetiism start taking effect. However, he thinks it is actually Hypermalaria and asks Dr. John A. Zoidberg to fulfill their pact and mercy kill him.
Zoidberg is caught in the act by the Planet Express Crew and imprisoned. He then finds out from a white hair that the Professor actually has Yetiism and runs to Mom to get the Yeti head he needs to cure the Professor.
The Professor explains his pact to the crew and they decide to replace Zoidberg and kill him with a Murdolater.
Zoidberg returns and cures the Professor just as he starts to turn into a yeti and be killed by the Murdolater. They celebrate with tanning.
The 3011 Parade Day is held (6ACV19).
Bender is murdered by Lynn, a suicide booth, and ends up as a robot ghost in limbo (6ACV19).
Fry has a heart attack and temporarily moves to the Amish homeworld. He returns to New New York after a near-death experience (6ACV19).
Bender makes Robot God return him to Earth again (6ACV19).
August
Planet Express goes bankrupt, and the company is turned into a commercial airline. The first flight unfortunately crash land on an uncharted planet, and after finally coming home, Plan Am is closed down (6ACV20).
Leela tries to tell the orphans at the Cookieville Minimum-Security Orphanarium a story, but fails to impress them. She sets out to write a better one.
She returns later with an amazing story about the Humplings from a world called Rumbledy-Hump. The kids, and Abner Doubledeal love it. Abner gets Leela to sign a coupon to turn the Humplings into a new kids show.
They film the first episode with Planet Express acting as the Humplings. It gets fantastic ratings, and the show because extremely popular.
Leela wins a Slurmee, a Peabody Junior, and two training Emmys for Rumbledy-Hump.
Bender finds out that Leela didn't actually write the episodes herself, but was rather writing down the adventures of aliens called Humplings in a planet called Rumbledy-Hump. After being blackmailed by Bender for her secret, Leela confesses to plagiarism to everyone and shows them the real Humplings.
Abner revamps the show by adopting the orphans as the filming crew, and makes it a reality show starring the Humplings.
Fry takes care of a Bone Vampire egg from a Local Farmer's Market. It hatches into Mr. Peppy.
The crew return Mr. Peppy to the Doohan 6.
At The Drunken Sniper they meet Angus McZongo and hear tales about how the bone vampires attacked their livestock and McZongo killed them all. Leela convinces McZongo to wait a few days before hunting down Mr. Peppy. Over the night, McZongo dresses up as a bone vampire and debones some livestock, framing Mr. Peppy, so that he can kill it and be a hero.
After Leela is attacked by McZongo in his costume, Fry decides to kill Mr. Peppy himself. They find out about McZongo's scheme. They also find out that the real Mr. Peppy was killing livestock, but the villagers decide to let him live for productivity reasons.
Fry invites the rest of Planet Express for a party at his night job at the Hall of Presidents at the Head Museum.
Zoidberg drinks some H2OGfat from Lyndon Johnson's head, which sends him, along with Professor Farnsworth and Dr. Amy Wong, back to the 1960s. They then return back to 3011 after a moment.
Fry licks Herbert Hoover's head which sends him, along with Bender, Leela and Hermes back to Hoover's time. They return with a little person in Bender's cavity.
The Professor realizes that this is caused by the Opal found in the jar juice. He names these Head trips the "Farnsworth Effect".
Professor Farnsworth learns that one of his ancestors, David Farnsworth was a traitor working for the British from George Washington's head. He pours the last remaining supply of Opal into his jar and licks him, sending him, Fry, Bender and Leela back to 1775.
The four return to find themselves in an alternate timeline where the American Revolutionary War was won by the British, due to their meddling in time. The professor steals an opal crystal from the Queen of England, America, and Two Parking Spaces in Tokyo, the four pour it in David Farnsworth's head jar, and they go back to prevent themselves from changing history. They succeed, with the only exception being the Gadsden flag being replaced with a painting of Bender and the caption "Bite my shiny metal ass".
November
The Manhattan common cold outbreak. Vaccine invented by Farnsworth.
Bender is overclocked by Cubert J. Farnsworth, gaining godlike powers. Mom finds out and sues.
Mom v. Farnsworth takes place. Mom drops the charges, but Bender is reset to his normal conditions.
Turanga Leela leaves Planet Express, and later returns.

!!!! 3012

Unknown date
Ben is born (7ACV01).
Predicted doomsday (7ACV02).
The Earth presidential election of 3012 takes place, and Richard Nixon's head emerges victorious (7ACV03).
Calculon dies after drinking a vial of food coloring in an acting competition against Langdon Cobb (7ACV04).
Zapp and Admiral Chew negotiate the Treaty of Table 7 (7ACV05).
29 September
Senator Chris Travers is born.

!!!! 3013 — 3099

3013
Fry and Leela freeze time and get married, Professor Farnsworth eventually resets time to the moment before he created the time button (7ACV26).
3014
A time capsule from 2014 is opened, unleashing a group of mutants conceived from Bart Simpson's DNA, the Planet Express crew and the Simpson family eventually send them out into space (SABF16).
3023
Kif and Leela's offspring crawl back onto land as children.
3026
Teleportation is invented, according to that guy from the future (6ACV20).
3028
Robot Uprising occurs as result of Nixon's re-election in 3012.
Chris Travers, 15, is sent to prevent Nixon's re-election in 3012.

The wasteland of Earth in the year 10000, showing the monuments of humans, apes, birds, cows and some slug maybe.

!!! 3100 — 10000

3300
Trapped robots in the titanium mine in Titan will be dead, if not rescued properly (2ACV03).
4000
The setting of Matt Groening's head's ill-fated Futurella show (6ACV11).
4972
The book "A Brief History of Time Travel" is released. Using time travel, it seems to have reappeared in the year 3007 (BBS).
?
Intelligent apes overthrow humanity (6ACV07).
Intelligent birds overthrow the apes (6ACV07).
Intelligent cows overthrow the birds (6ACV07).
Intelligent slugs overthrow the cows. They then somehow have their civilization destroyed (6ACV07).

In the year 10 000 000, humanity fight a losing war against the robots.

In the year 1 000 000 000, all life in the universe is wiped out, and Earth is a vast desert.

In the year 10 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000, the universe ends.

!!! 10 000 — End of the universe

10 000
Earth has become a wasteland, with the few humans left living primitively as nomads (6ACV07).
105 105
Along with an ongoing ice age, humans are more civilised again, using laser weaponry (6ACV07).
252 525
A medieval-like era is ongoing (à la Joust) (6ACV07).
351 120
Earth is covered in water with huge sea monsters, such as the bloodthirsty shrimp (6ACV07).
1 000 000 ½
Human kind is enslaved by giraffes (6ACV07).
5 000 000
Human kind has evolved into small, Intellectually and morally advanced creatures as well as the Dumblocks, a brutal, primitive people that live underground (6ACV07).
5 000 005
The advanced of the two has been overrun by the brutal Dumblocks (6ACV07).
10 000 000
Humanity fights a losing war against the robots, that they unknowingly of the coming terror had constructed to make their lives easier (6ACV07).
50 000 000
Earth is covered with beautiful and intelligent women with the knowledge of creating backwards time machines. Men are extremely rare in this era, and even old and very stupid men are prized (6ACV07).
500 003 010
This year is mostly unknown. In a non-canon segment, it is shown that the Planet Express building is still existent despite being destroyed sometime before the year 10,000. The land around the building is a hot desert, and Ruth and Esther are still wrestling.
1 000 000 000
All life in the universe is wiped out, and a vast desert is all that remains of planet Earth (6ACV07).
ca. 9 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 983
The Nibblonian race comes into existence (3ACV07).
ca. 10 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
The last of all protons decays, signaling the ultimate end of the current universe. Seconds after the universe ends, a new Big Bang happens and forms a new universe, perfectly identical to the last. And the cycle restarts (6ACV07).
