!! Адвентюры

Игры  якобы требующие  наличия головного мозга. На деле встречается перебор объектов и пиксель хантинг.

(:childlist:)

* Приключенческий боевик
** Survival horror
* Приключения
** Текстовая приключенческая игра
** Text adventures
** Графический квест
** Graphic adventures
*** Головоломки
** Симулятор свиданий
** Визуальная новелла
** Real-time 3D adventures

!!! Action-adventure

Main article: Action-adventure game

Action-adventure games combine elements of their two component genres, typically featuring long-term obstacles that must be overcome using a tool or item as leverage (which is collected earlier), as well as many smaller obstacles almost constantly in the way, that require elements of action games to overcome. Action-adventure games tend to focus on exploration and usually involve item gathering, simple puzzle solving, and combat. "Action-adventure" has become a label which is sometimes attached to games which do not fit neatly into another well known genre.

The first action-adventure game was the Atari 2600 game Adventure (1979). It was directly inspired by the original text adventure, Colossal Cave Adventure. In the process of adapting a text game to a console with only a joystick for control, designer Warren Robinett created a new genre. Because of their prevalence on video game consoles and the absence of typical adventure games, action-adventure games are often confusingly called "adventure games" by gamers.

!!!! Stealth game

Stealth games are a somewhat recent subgenre, sometimes referred to as "sneakers" or "creepers" to contrast with the action-oriented "shooter" subgenre. These games tend to emphasize subterfuge and precision strikes over the more overt mayhem of shooters.

!!!! Survival horror

Survival horror games focus on fear and attempt to scare the player via traditional horror fiction elements such as atmospherics, death, the undead, blood and gore. One crucial gameplay element in many of these games is the low quantity of ammunition, or number of breakable melee weapons. A notable example is Silent Hill and Resident Evil.

!!! Adventure

Main article: Adventure game

Adventure games were some of the earliest games created, beginning with the text adventure Colossal Cave Adventure in the 1970s. That game was originally titled simply "Adventure," and is the namesake of the genre. Over time, graphics have been introduced to the genre and the interface has evolved.

Unlike adventure films, adventure games are not defined by story or content. Rather, adventure describes a manner of gameplay without reflex challenges or action. They normally require the player to solve various puzzles by interacting with people or the environment, most often in a non-confrontational way. It is considered a "purist" genre and tends to exclude anything which includes action elements beyond a mini game.

Because they put little pressure on the player in the form of action-based challenges or time constraints, adventure games have had the unique ability to appeal to people who do not normally play video games. The genre peaked in popularity with the 1993 release of Myst, the best-selling PC game of all time up to that point. The simple point and click interface, detailed worlds and casual pace made it accessible, and its sense of artistic surrealism caused news outlets such as Wired Magazine, The New York Times and the San Francisco Chronicle to declare that the gaming industry had matured. It had four proper sequels, but none managed to experience the same level of success. The success of Myst also inspired many others to create similar games with first person perspectives, surreal environments and minimal or no dialogue, but these neither recaptured the success of Myst nor of earlier personality-driven adventures.

In the late 1990s the genre suffered a large drop in popularity, mass-market releases became rare, and many proclaimed the adventure game to be dead. More accurately, it has become a niche genre. Adventure games are not entirely uncommon, but they tend to be very low budget in anticipation of modest sales. The genre was somewhat rejuvenated with the release of The Longest Journey in 1999, which emphasized stronger story elements and more interaction with different characters. A recent resurgence of adventure games on Nintendo consoles might signify a new interest in the genre.

!!!! Real-time 3D adventures

Around this time, real-time 3D adventure games appeared. These included Nightfall in 1998, realMyst in 2000, and Uru: Ages Beyond Myst in 2003. They augmented traditional adventure gameplay with some of the attributes more commonly associated with action games. For example, freedom of motion and physics based behavior.

!!!! Text adventures

The earliest adventure games were text adventures, also known as interactive fiction. Games such as the popular Zork series of the late 1970s and early 1980s allowed the player to use a keyboard to enter commands such as "get rope" or "go west" while the computer describes what is happening. A great deal of programming went into parsing the player's text input.

!!!! Graphic adventures

Mystery House for the Apple II was the first adventure game to use graphics in the early home computer era.
Graphic adventure games emerged as graphics became more common. Adventure games began to supplement and later on replace textual descriptions with visuals (for example, a picture of the current location). Early graphic adventure games used text-parsers to input commands. The growing use of mice led to the "point-and-click" genre of adventure games, where the player would no longer have to type commands. The player could, for example, click on a hand icon and then on a rope to pick up the rope.

!!!! Visual novels

A visual novel is a game featuring mostly static graphics, usually with anime-style art. As the name might suggest, they resemble mixed-media novels or tableau vivant stage plays. Many visual novels track statistics that the player must build in order to advance the plot, and permit a variety of endings, allowing more dynamic reactions to the player's actions than a typical linear adventure plot. Many visual novels are dating sims, including bishōjo games. Visual novels are especially prevalent in Japan, where they make up nearly 70% of PC games released. They are rarely produced for video game consoles, but the more popular games are sometimes ported to systems such as the Dreamcast or the PlayStation 2. The market for visual novels outside of Japan, however, was nearly non-existent prior to the success of the Nintendo DS, for which several Japanese visual novels were released in the West, such as the Ace Attorney series.

The interactive movie genre came about with the invention of laserdiscs. An interactive movie contains pre-filmed full-motion cartoons or live-action sequences, where the player controls some of the moves of the main character. For example, when in danger, the player decides which move, action, or combination to choose. In these games, the only activity the player has is to choose or guess the move the designers intend him to make. Interactive movies usually differ from games that simply use full motion video, FMV, extensively between scenes in that they try to integrate it into the gameplay itself. This has been used in everything from racing games to fighting games. A few adventure game have tried to use the term to liken the storytelling of their games to those in movies, most notably the later Tex Murphy games and the more recent Fahrenheit (Indigo Prophecy), although they are more aptly classified as genre hybrids. Elements of interactive movies have been adapted for game cut scenes, in the form of Quick Time Events, to keep the player alert. Games like Resident Evil 4 present obvious in-game prompts for the player to react to. Not doing so usually results in the player character either getting hurt or outright killed.

Приключения[править | править вики-текст]
Приключение (англ. Adventure) — игра-повествование, в которой управляемый игроком герой продвигается по сюжету и взаимодействует с игровым миром посредством применения предметов, общения с другими персонажами и решения логических задач.

Текстовая приключенческая игра[править | править вики-текст]
Основная статья: Interactive Fiction
Первоначально, из-за малого распространения графических устройств отображения и недостатка ресурсов (памяти и мощности процессора), приключенческие игры были текстовыми. Позднее этот жанр был назван текстовым квестом. Отличие от графических квестов состоит в том, что игрок взаимодействует с игровым миром посредством командной строки и информация о мире выводится в виде текстов и рисунков из печатных знаков. В текстовых квестах вовсе не обязательно отсутствует графическая составляющая — это ярко выражено в более поздних текстовых квестах (Superhero league of Hoboken и т. п.)

Пионеры жанра приключенческих игр — Colossal Cave Adventure, Охота на Вампуса, Zork — были текстовыми.

Графический квест[править | править вики-текст]
Основная статья: Квест
Графические приключенческие игры эволюционировали из текстовых приключений. Первые графические квесты появились ещё в начале 1980-х. Это такие популярные серии, как King’s Quest, Space Quest, Leisure Suit Larry. Первые игры этого жанра сочетали в себе текстовый ввод с графическим отображением происходящего. С выходом игры Maniac Mansion получил распространение интерфейс, использующий вместо текстового ввода управление при помощи компьютерной мыши («point and click»).

Примеры:

серия Space Quest
серия Ларри в выходном костюме
серия Syberia
серия Myst
серия The Longest Journey
Головоломки[править | править вики-текст]
Кроме сбора предметов и их использования, в этих играх решаются различные головоломки, в той или иной степени интернированные в сюжет, и на решение головоломок делается основной упор. Обычно может понадобиться сборка различных, нередко абсурдных как по виду, так и по функциональности, механизмов. Самыми популярными представителями жанра являются Myst, Neverhood.

Приключенческий боевик[править | править вики-текст]
Основная статья: Action-adventure
Главным образом основан на реакции и рефлексах игрока, но есть и элементы классических квестов — предметы и взаимодействие с окружающей обстановкой. Известными представителями являются игры серии Legend of Zelda, Resident Evil и другие игры жанра ужасов.

Симулятор свиданий[править | править вики-текст]
Основная статья: Симулятор свиданий
Симуляторы романтических отношений. Так же известны как романтические приключения (англ. romantic adventure). По геймплею некоторые из них близки к RPG, другие — к квестам.

Визуальная новелла[править | править вики-текст]
Основная статья: Визуальная новелла
Другое название — визуальный роман. Жанр компьютерных игр, в котором зрителю демонстрируется история при помощи вывода на экран текста, статичных (либо анимированных) изображений, а также звукового и/или музыкального сопровождения.

Текстовые[править | править вики-текст]
Основная статья: Interactive fiction
Interactive fiction (IF, буквальный перевод — интерактивная литература; текстовые квесты; adventure — приключенческая игра) — жанр компьютерных игр, в котором общение с игроком осуществляется посредством текстовой информации. Развитие этого жанра, в связи с низким требованием к ресурсам, началось весьма давно, и не прекратилось даже с появлением графических игр. Существуют два вида интерфейса — интерфейс, в котором текст вводится с клавиатуры или интерфейс в виде меню, где игрок выбирает действие из нескольких предложенных (англ. CYOA, Choose Your Own Adventure).

----

!!! Adventure Game Types

I'm trying to categorize the games a little. So far the system is as follows:

!!!! Text only (TO)
No pictures (of course).

!!!! Graphics (G)
Some kind of graphics. This category is used when I know that a game had graphics but I don't know what type. Please let me know if you can help me categorize games from this category better.

!!!! Character graphics (CG)
Pictures made up of characters. Generally horrible, but not uncommon for a while.

!!!! Drawn graphics (DG)
Pictures drawn for each room as you enter it.

!!!! Bitmap graphics (BG)
Static high-resolution pictures.

!!!! Interactive graphics (IG)
This category is a bit difficult to define. Uninvited (ICOM) goes here, anyway. I'd like to get rid of this category, so if you can tell which other category games in this category fit in I'd appreciate it.

!!!! Moving character graphics (MCG)
These games have a graphical representation of yourself that you move around the screen. Examples are later Sierra games and LucasArts games.

!!!! Point-n-Click (PNC)
This means that you control the game by pointing at things with the mouse, choosing alternatives from menus or something similar.

!!!! 3D (3D)
These are games with a first-person 3D view of the world (like Doom, Quake, and similar action games).

!!!! Text input (TEXT)
This means that you control the game by entering text. This is the standard way, and is only mentioned if it can be used alongside PNC input.

!!!! Multiple choice (CHOICE)
This means that the game is controlled by choosing actions from a list or menu instead of entering text freely.

!!!! Sound (SOUND)
This means that the game features some kind of sound that isn't music.

!!!! Music (MUSIC)
This means, of course, that the game contains some kind of music score.

!!!! Video clips (VIDEO)
This means that the game features full-motion video.