!! Back From the Outdoors

!!! Adventure Background

In keeping with traditional Paranoia, this adventure is actually a semi-sequel to the original Paranoia, Second Edition introductory adventure "Into the Outdoors with Gun and Camera." Wait! Stop! You don't have to go out and search through bookstores and game racks for Paranoia, Second Edition — you don't need anything but this book to play. I'm just setting the stage, here.

You see, in the original adventure, the Troubleshooters were assigned to leave Alpha Complex and venture into the Outdoors — exploring the wild, untamed, partly-irradiated and definitely Not Safe world of the future. Having grown up in Alpha Complex's domes, however, they first had to cope with the idea that there were no ceilings and few walls Outdoors, and the Computer wasn't everywhere.

A sobering experience. 

It was also a good way to get new Paranoia players involved in the world. See, the Troubleshooters started out in Alpha Complex, but then had to venture Outdoors. For the players, this meant they started out by getting partially used to the unfamiliar "indoors" world of Alpha Complex, and then they were thrust into what was, for them, a fairly familiar world — but they had to pretend it wasn't. Trees became "brown poles," ground became "green-covered, soft-textured floor" and the sky became "AAAAAH!!!! THERE'S NO CEILING!! AAAAAHHH!!"

Ahem.

Well, in this adventure, the Troubleshooters are assigned as a back-up team to the first one. They have to be briefed by the Computer's briefing officers, get their equipment from PLC, obtain experimental stuff from R&D, and then embark on a dangerous mission. Pretty much the same sort of thing the first team did.

But...

In this adventure, the goal is not to go Outdoors and explore — instead, it is to go Outdoors and eliminate a rogue Troubleshooter team assigned many monthcycles ago to venture into the Outdoors and bring back important information, samples, and prisoners to the Computer.

But they betrayed the Computer and all the loyal clones of Alpha Complex.

Oh, not right away. They were devious traitors. See, they went through all the normal mission procedures normally — they collected their equipment and went through their briefings like any other Troubleshooter team (hardly ever shooting each other in the back) — but when they went Outdoors, things got strange. After the first few mission reports and requests for replacement clones, their radio went dead. Repeated attempts at contact — first by radio, then by flybot, and finally by Armed Forces search patrols — failed. The Troubleshooters were lost in the Outdoors. Oh, well. Time to send out another team.

Or so everyone thought.

You see, the Computer is much smarter than any mere Troubleshooter, and It finally figured out what was going on. It knew that each of the Troubleshooters in the team had several clones left on their six-pack, so the team was not eliminated. It also knew that It had assigned the Troubleshooters everything they would need to survive in the Outdoors — Happiness Pills, Bouncy Bubble Beverage, weapons, ammo, a transbot — so they must be alive. The only conclusion was that they have gone renegade.

And the Computer is annoyed.

The new Troubleshooter team will be assigned the job of locating and terminating the old team before it can get back to Alpha Complex and spread treasonous information about Outdoors among the citizenry. Termination vouchers have been issued for each of the traitorous team members (they will be given to the Team Leader at the start of the mission) and no quarter is expected to be asked or given.

As a secondary mission, the Troubleshooters are supposed to collect information about Outdoors as they go, and take soil, vegetable, and tissue samples from everything they encounter. They are supposed to return within two weekcycles, their mission completed.
 
Of course, the Troubleshooters will probably not know that all information about the Outdoors — including any maps or tips they get from their briefing officers — are classified as security clearance Ultraviolet. This is to be kept secret from them at all times. You see, the Computer is not going to risk Ultraviolet clones on a mission with this much danger — but It definitely wants the mission accomplished. The Troubleshooters will have to deal with this problem when (or if) they return.

!!! Adventure Synopsis

The following plot outline will give you a good idea of how the adventure should go. If the Troubleshooters do lots of silly things and get themselves off the track of the adventure, you can use it as a guideline to boot them back on. Or you can change the whole sequence if you want ... but make sure to read over both the outline and the entire adventure before you go changing too much, you hear?

!!!! Episode One: Wakey, Wakey

The Troubleshooters are all in their individual creches or dormitories, snoring away the effects of their SleepyTyme capsules. They've gotten a rich, dream-filled two or three hourcycles of slumber before a claxon by each Troubleshooter's head starts ringing. This air raid/nuclear alert siren is the Troubleshooter's alarm clock — it tells the Troubleshooter in the most subtle of ways, "Hey, get up, get dressed, and get going — the Computer wants you!" Since the claxon also startles everyone else in the area awake, getting you up and out the door will probably be their mission as well—so it's a quick scene punctuated by blows and curses.

!!!! Episode Two: Briefing, Briefing, Who's Got the Briefing?

When the Troubleshooters get pushed, thrown, or otherwise propelled out of their doors, they meet in a small corridor. The Computer tells them to get to the PSU briefing center ASAP and PDQ, unless they want to turn up DOA down in the food VAT (sorry, I was on a roll). Of course, information on where to find the PSU briefing center is classified, so they'll have to find it on their own.

!!!! Episode Three: Your Job, Should You Choose Not To Be Executing

Having arrived at the briefing center, the Troubleshooters are finally admitted to the briefing room and briefed, in brief, by their briefing officers (sorry; I'm doing it again). They get some sketchy information about their mission, as well as a few maps and other useless gamemaster aids. Then they get shunted off to PLC for equipment.

!!!! Episode Four: Is It Me, Or PLC

Production, Logistics, and Commissary has been told to outfit the Troubleshooters for a trip Outdoors. Unfortunately, they don't really know what a team going Outdoors needs — the last clones who asked the Computer were demoted, assigned treason points, and then executed for requesting Ultraviolet clearance information — so the equipment assigned will be pretty sketchy. But everything must be signed for. And that includes anything PLC has lost in the last decade or so and is looking for a scapegoat to blame it on, so be careful.

!!!! Episode Five: No Good Equipment Goes Unpunished

Research and Design has a few ideas what the Troubleshooters might need in the Outdoors, but they're not telling why. Instead, they want you to try out some nifty new gizmos. Go ahead. Try it on. The Computer won't mind. In fact, It insists. Now, when you want to activate it, just push this little — NO! FOR THE COMPUTER'S SAKE, DON'T PUSH IT IN HERE!!

!!!! Episode Six: On The Transtube And Out The Door

The Troubleshooters are then hustled into a transbot and ferried to an outer sector of
Alpha Complex — OUT sector, of course. Naturally, the transtube breaks down and they
have to walk most of the way, but this allows them to make contact with secret society
members, pals, and other personages of Alpha Complex. It also gives them a chance to
blast each other while nobody much is looking.

!!!! Episode Seven: Quit Stalling And Live Already

At long last, the Troubleshooters arrive at the OUT sector airlock. They are appre-
hended by Vulture Troopers who have been ordered to track them down and escort them
Outdoors. They are blamed for not showing up on time, even though the transtube broke
down, and they will probably get into a couple of fights or heavy grovelling sessions.
Eventually, they'll get booted Outdoors.

!!!! Episode Eight: To Seek Out, To Explore... To Pour Firepower Downrange

The Troubleshooters go through all the predictable stages of shock at being Outdoors.
The gamemaster will probably have to encourage this. They have a couple of encounters
with animals and then mutated animals... and, finally, some nasty natives — excuse me,
"Outdoor clones" — who want to have them for dinner. Or brunch. Whatever it is, they're
on the menu.
At this point, the Troubleshooters encounter different tribes of Outdoors clones and
probably start to figure out a little about what's going on. This is dangerous for them, as
they will probably have to display treasonous knowledge to do anything with what they
find out. The Outdoor clones are followers of the traitors they are seeking out, and appear
to be battling each other as well as the newly-arrived Troubleshooters.

!!!! Episode Nine: A Wild Ride

The Troubleshooters use their experimental water transbot to escape from the natives,
who are threatening to overwhelm them. They have to contend with mutant creatures
from the deeps, radioactive water, and raging rapids. They end up at the bottom of a
waterfall, captured by one of the tribes.

!!!! Episode Ten: A New Team Leader?

The original team leader has her own little tribe, away from the rest of the treasonous
clones. She is genuinely trying to return to Alpha Complex, having completed his mission.
She has even organized her tribe into a miniature version of Alpha Complex, and started
up her own Troubleshooter organization. She wants the Troubleshooters to help her get
her tribe back to Alpha Complex. Too bad the Troubleshooters want to kill her.

!!!! Episode Eleven: Battle Of A Lot Of Armies

The Troubleshooters, with or without their new allies, have to make it back through
hostile territory to get to Alpha Complex. They must scale the waterfall cliff-face and then
sneak upriver through the other tribes. Unfortunately, the appearance of the new team
has caused all the other old team members to go berserk and start a final war-to-end-all-
wars ... right where the Troubleshooters want to go. They'll have to get through it
somehow to make it home.

!!!! Episode Twelve: All Wrapped Out And Nowhere To Go

Just when everything looks hopeless, the Troubleshooters are rescued by another
Troubleshooter team, flybots, and the Armed Forces. Everyone gets into the act, and body
parts go flying everywhere.
But, wait — why are they shooting at us?! We're the good guys!
Eventually, the Troubleshooters get obliterated. Those with clone replacements wake
up in the same briefing room they started this all in, others are out of the game.

!!!! Aftermath: Debrief Or Die, Citizen

The debriefing exposes all treason and allows everyone to lie about everyone else.
When it's over, any clone still standing might actually get a leg up. Some might get a boot
to the head. Read on and find out.
