!! Might and Magic VI: The Mandate of Heaven
!!! The Complete Guide to Might and Magic VI

[@
_______________________________
|Author: DG Dobrev            |
|e-mail: iron_feather@mail.bg |
|Date: 28th December 2001     |
|Version: 1.0                 |
|_____________________________|

This FAQ came to life with the kind help of these great people:
1. Degenerate4Life
2. Sashanan
3. GriffonRider

----------------
COPYRIGHT NOTICE
----------------

1. What you can do with this guide:
- Make a copy for pesonal use

2. WHAT YOU CANNOT DO!
- Sell this FAQ for money.
- Post it on your website without my permision.
- Use parts of this FAQ as your own.
- Plagiarize this FAQ in any imaginable way.

3. FOR ANY COMMENTS, additions, questions about the game etc. regarding this FAQ feel
free to e-mail me. My personal mailbox is:

iron_feather@mail.bg

-----------------
Table of Contents
-----------------

- Copyright notice

- Foreword
1. Forming the Party.
2. Character's statistics, factors, primary and seconrdary skills.
   2.1. Primary Statistics.
   2.2. Factors.
   2.3. Weapon skills.
   2.4. Magic skills.
   2.5. Armor.
   2.6. Miscellaneous skills
3. The obelisk puzzle.
4. Promotion quests.
   4.1. Knight
   4.2. Paladin.
   4.3. Archer.
   4.4. Sorcerer.
   4.5. Cleric.
   4.6. Druid.
5. The quests of the six lords.
6. Oracle missions.
7. Artifacts and relics in the game.
8. Simple weapons and gear in the game.
9. Solving the side quests.
10. Town descriptions and teache locations.
11. Hints, tips, secrets and advices.
12. Spell descriptions.
13. Special thanks.
14. Are you planning to make another version?



Foreword

Having cheated Death during the Night of Shooting Stars, you find yourself as far
from your village of Sweet Water, as old Fallagar's magic could take you...
Three years have passed, while Fallagar imparted what knowledge he could, to train
you in your chosen professions.
But the time came at last, when he could teach you no more, and you have ventured into
the world to seeks your fame and fortune.
Now, a world away from your lost home, you have stumbled across evidence for a terrible
conspiracy, involving a new religious cult.
Five letters from King Roland to his wife Catherine and a letter from King of the Devils
to a wicked traitor named Sulman have turned up in an abandoned goblin camp.
Your faith seems inextricably bound to these letters and that awful Night and your role
in the events to come may be larger than anyone could imagine!
The tools you have is but a small sum of gold, your wits and a lot of potential.
The roads ahead are infinite and all the choices are yours to make - so choose wisely!


Good luck!





Might and Magic VI is not a game to be played once and then thrown away. You'll need a lot
of patience, wits, logic thinking, to solve all the secrets. This game is a
pure RPG with some sci-fi in it - I'm speaking about the hi-tech buildings (the Hive and
The Control Center) and the Blasters. But don't think that this makes the game worse!


1. Forming the Party

To form a party, you'll need to choose four of the six classes available in this game.
These classes are:

Knight - The Knight is the only character in the game, which can't cast spells and possess
no magical abilities. But that's not that bad - it allows him to advance in other areas of
skill - like in Disarm Trap (you won't do well without this skill!), Perception (you'll need
this skill no matter what you think of it!), etc. He is extremely skilled in combat, great
addition to every type of party. Just give him two weapons (preferably Sword and Spear),
good armor and a bow, and he'll become the ultimate fighting machine in Might and Magic VI!
His first promotion is to Cavalier, and later on, he becomes a Champion.
When starting the game, give him more points on Might, Endurance, Accuracy and Speed. I propose
to give him the next values: Might: 20, Intellect: 5, Personality: 5, Endurance: 20,
Accuracy: 13, Speed: 13. Choose Bow and Shield or Bow and Disarm Trap as additional two skills.


***
Knight
The Knight class is the workhorse fighting class.  Knights start with the largest selection
of weapons and armor, and may ultimately use any type of weapon or armor.  Being the toughest
warriors of the classes, Knights begin with the greatest number of hit points and get the most
number of hit points when they advance in level.  Knights can be promoted to Cavalier status
with a two hit point per level gain, and then to Champion status with another two hit point
per level gain.  Knights may never learn spells, nor may they ever learn (or need) the
Meditation skill.

Cavalier
The Cavalier class is the first promotion of the Knight.  Cavaliers may use any type of weapon
or armor, but they may not learn spells.  Cavaliers enjoy the benefit of an extra two hit
points per level, and can be promoted once more to Champion status with another two hit point
per level gain.

Champion
The Champion class is the second and last promotion of the Knight.  Champions may use any type
of weapon or armor, but they may not learn spells.  Champions enjoy the benefit of an extra
four hit points per level.
-By Degenerate4Life-


Paladin - The Paladin is much like the Knight, but he has certain spell power. He is able to
learn the Magic of Spirit, Mind, and Body and thus to act as a backup healer.  The Paladin is
able to learn all weapon skills and I believe some would use him than the Knight. You should
concentrate on fighting and healing abilities and leave someone else do the dirty work. He is
supposed to be the backup healer and a good fighter, right? However, the drawback of the
Paladin is that he has less Hit Points than the Knight, and not that much spell points - this
means that he won't be able to cast a lot of spells. His first promotion is to Crusader and
the second promotion is to Hero.
When starting the game, you should give him more points on Might, Endurance, Speed and Accuracy.
If you want add a point or two on Personality to raise his SP, but they are not that much when
beginning the game. So, that's what I'll give to my Paladin: Might: 20, Intellect: 5,
Personality: 12, Endurance: 15, Accuracy: 13, Speed: 13, Luck: 9.
For the next two skills, I always choose Chain and Shield, and buy the bow skill as soon as I
can.



***
Paladin
A cross between Knight and Cleric, Paladins perform both roles well, but not as well as the
more focused classes they borrow from.  Like Knights, Paladins can learn to use any type of
weapon or armor, although they don't have as many choices to begin with.  Paladins also begin
with the Spirit realm of magic, and can also learn to use the Clerical Mind and Body realms.
They cannot, however, learn to use the greater realms of Light and Dark, nor any of the
Elemental realms.  Paladins that are true to their cause may be promoted to Crusader (gaining
one hit point and spell point per level) and ultimately to Hero (gaining another hit point and
spell point per level).  Paladins may learn all of the secondary skills.

Crusader
Crusader is the first Paladin promotion.  Crusaders can learn to use any type of weapon or
armor, and they can learn the Clerical magics of Spirit, Mind, and Body.  Crusaders enjoy the
benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level, and can be promoted to Heroes,
gaining an additional hit point and spell point per level.

Hero
Hero is the second and last Paladin promotion.  Heroes can learn to use any type of weapon or
armor, and they can learn the Clerical magics of Spirit, Mind, and Body.  Heroes enjoy the
benefit of an extra two hit points and spell points per level.
-By Degenerate4Life-


Cleric - This is one of the most important characters in the game. Large amounts of spell
points and hit points for the spell caster classes, he can master all the Clerical spells
and the powerful spells - Light and Dark. However, he is a little underpowered, and should
have good armor (chain mail) and a good shield. Don't worry about his fighting skills - he'll
become a good fighter after you give him a blaster. His first promotion is to Priest, and
later, he becomes a High Priest.
The stats he should have at the beginning, assuming he won't be a fighter, but a spell caster:
Might: 5, Intellect: 7, Personality: 20, Endurance: 14, Accuracy: 13, Speed: 12, Luck 7.
The other two skills he should learn are the Mind and Spirit magic, because learning spells is
expensive. You'll waste less money on other skills.


***
Cleric
Clerics in Enroth are adventuring, spell casting holy men.  A Cleric is a mediocre fighter but
an excellent spell caster, with spells concentrating on healing and defensive themes.  Clerics
and Sorcerers are the only two classes that can learn from the Mirrored Path of the Light and
the Dark, and the awesome spells these realms of magic offer.  They are, unfortunately, rather
limited in their weapons, with mace, staff, and bow being their only choices.  Armor is a
little better with plate being the only kind forbidden them, and they have no restrictions on
secondary skills.  With much diligence and study, Clerics can be promoted to Priest
(gaining one hit point and spell point per level) and eventually to High Priest (gaining a
nother hit point and spell point).

Priest
Priest is the first Cleric Promotion.  Priests can learn spells from the schools of Spirit,
Mind, Body, Light, and Dark.  They are, unfortunately, rather limited in their weapons, with
mace, staff, and bow being their only choices.  Armor is a little better with plate being the
only kind forbidden them, and they have no restrictions on secondary skills.  They enjoy the
benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level, and can be promoted to High Priest
to gain another hit point and spell point per level.

High Priest
High Priest is the second and last Cleric Promotion.  High Priests can learn spells from the
schools of Spirit, Mind, Body, Light, and Dark.  They are, unfortunately, rather limited in
their weapons, with mace, staff, and bow being their only choices.  Armor is a little better
with plate being the only kind forbidden them, and they have no restrictions on secondary
skills.  High Priests enjoy the benefit of an extra two hit points and spell points per level.
-By Degenerate4Life-


Archer - The Archer is the Knight/Sorcerer. He is a good fight are can learn to cast spells.
He is a good addition to every party, for he can shoot enemies from afar. Speaking about
weapons, you should give him something two-handed, for he can't use a shield. This means
either two swords, a Two-Handed Axe or a Spear-Halberd-Trident. As for the magic, he can
attain masteries in all four elemental classes, but he is much like the Paladin - with much
HP and less SP, so, he won't be able to cast powerful spells lots of times. He is first
promoted to Battle Mage, and later on, to Warrior Mage.
The stats that an Archer should have, assuming he'll be your fighter and marksman are:
Might: 15, Intellect: 12, Personality: 5, Endurance: 15, Accuracy: 18, Speed: 14, Luck: 9.
The other two skills that he should learn are: Axe/Spear and Fire Magic.

***
Archer
Like Paladins, the Archer is a hybrid of the Knight and Sorcerer classes.  Archers may learn
to use any type of weapon (specializing in the bow, of course) but they may never learn the
shield or plate armor skills.  They are compensated by beginning with the Air realm of magic
and may eventually learn to use the rest of the Elemental realms.  The greater realms of Light
and Dark are, however, beyond their grasp.  Archers can be promoted to Battle Mage (gaining one
hit point and one spell point per level) and eventually may become Warrior Mages (gaining
another hit point and spell point per level).  All of the secondary skills are open to the
Archer.

Battle Mage
Battle Mage is the first Archer promotion.  Battle Mages may learn to use any type of weapon,
but they may never learn the shield or plate armor skills.  They may also learn the four
elemental schools of magic of the Sorcerer.  Battle Mages enjoy the benefit of an extra hit
point and spell point per level, and may be promoted to Warrior Mage, gaining another hit point
and spell point per level.

Warrior Mage
Warrior Mage is the second and last Archer promotion.  Warrior Mages may learn to use any type
of weapon, but they may never learn the shield or plate armor skills.  They may also learn
the four elemental schools of magic of the Sorcerer.  Warrior Mages enjoy the benefit of an
extra two hit points and spell points per level.
-By Degenerate4Life-


Druid - the Druids are protectors of the forest and every living thing. They are able to learn
all elemental and Clerical classes of spells, but are unable to reach the powerful Light and
Dark magic. They are better fighters than the Sorcerers and are allowed to carry a shield and
a mace. If you are intended to use a Druid, concentrate on his magical abilities and spend all
his points there. After you have achieved mastery in all realms of magic, go for the expert
mace and master Leather armor. After that, save points for the blaster skill. He is first
promoted to Greater Druid, and after that, to Arch Druid.
The Druids' spell points depend on both intellect and personality, so you should increase
these stats most of all. I propose the next stat points distribution: Might: 5, Intellect: 20,
Personality: 20, Endurance: 14, Accuracy: 5, Speed: 14, Luck: 9.
You should also learn Body and Water magic as two additional skills.


***
Druid
Druids are a hybrid of the Sorcerer and Cleric classes.  They make poor fighters (better only
than the lowly Sorcerer) and have relatively few hit points.  On the plus side, Druids can use
both Sorcerer and Clerical magic.  Druids may not learn Light and Dark magic, and they can
only use the staff, dagger, and bow as weapons while wearing only leather and shield as armor.  All
secondary skills are open to the Druid, and as an added bonus Druids may begin the game with the
Learning skill.  Druids can be promoted to Great Druid (gaining one hit point and one spell point
per level) and eventually to Arch Druid (gaining another spell point and hit point per level).

Great Druid
Great Druids are the first Druid promotion.  They have access to both the Sorcerer's four
elemental magics, and the Cleric's schools of Spirit, Mind, and Body magic.  They may not,
however, learn to use Light or Dark magic, and they can only use the staff, dagger, and bow
as weapons.  Great Druids are also restricted to leather and shield as armor.  Great Druids
enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may be promoted to
Arch Druid, gaining another hit point and spell point per level.

Arch Druid
Arch Druids are the second and last Druid promotion.  They have access to both the Sorcerer's
four elemental magics, and the Cleric's schools of Spirit, Mind, and Body magic.  They may not,
however, learn to use Light or Dark magic, and they can only use the staff, dagger, and bow as
weapons.  Arch Druids are also restricted to leather and shield as armor.  Arch Druids enjoy
the benefit of an extra two hit points and spell points per level.
-By Degenerate4Life-


Sorcerer - This character class is necessary, no matter what happens! He is the weakest in body,
but the strongest in mind... And can cast the most devastating spells without getting low on spell
points too quickly. Give him a dagger in both hands, make him master in leather and then spend all
the rest of your skill points on Meditation and the spell skills. The problem is the lowest amount
if hit points... He will often go unconscious, maybe even die! Look after him very, very carefully.
At the beginning, he should have the following stats: Might: 5, Intellect: 25, Personality: 7,
Endurance: 17, Accuracy: 5, Speed: 16, Luck: 9.He should also learn Air and Water Magic.


***
Sorcerer
Students of the realm of Elemental magic, Sorcerers concentrate on offensive and utilitarian magic.
Sorcerers are downright rotten fighters barely able to learn to use the dagger, the staff, and the
bow effectively.  They are forbidden any kind of armor or shield and have the lowest hit points of
all the classes.  With that aside, Sorcerers can wield mighty offensive spells and have access to
the Mirrored Path of the Light and the Dark, from which come the best spells in the lands.  After
plenty of spell casting experience, Sorcerers can be promoted to Wizard (gaining one hit point and
one spell point per level) and then to Arch Mage (gaining another hit point and spell point).  No
secondary skills are forbidden Sorcerers.

Wizard
Wizards are the first Sorcerer promotion.  They are downright rotten fighters, barely able to learn
to use the dagger, staff, and bow effectively.  They cannot use armor better than leather or a
shield
and have the lowest hit points of all the classes.  With that aside, Wizards have access to the
elemental
spells and Light and Dark magic.  Wizards enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and extra spell
point
per level, and they can be promoted to Arch Mage, gaining another hit point and spell point per
level.

Arch Mage
Arch Mages are the second and last Sorcerer promotion.  They are downright rotten fighters, barely
able
to learn to use the dagger, staff, and bow effectively.  They cannot use armor better than leather
or a
shield and have the lowest hit points of all the classes.  With that aside, Arch Mages have access
to
the elemental spells and Light and Dark magic.  Arch Mages enjoy the benefit of an extra two hit
points
and spell points per level.
-By Degenerate4Life-


I believe this should be enough for a short info about all the characters and will help you to
choose your
starting party. On my opinion, groups like: Knight-Archer-Cleric-Sorcerer or Knight-Paladin-Cleric-
Sorcerer
and the best-balanced parties in Might and Magic VI. But... I personally, prefer parties with lots
of magic
in their blood: like Cleric-Sorcerer-Sorcerer-Sorcerer. It's extremely difficult till you make this
group
endure for awhile longer in the beginning... But as soon as you get to higher level, you'll see,
that this
group is unbeatable.

Some tips:
1. Every member of your party should have skills for close combat and shooting, just as the required
weapons
or spells for that. Every character is able to use the following weapons in the game:
Knight - ALL WEAPONS
Paladin - ALL WEAPONS
Archer - ALL WEAPONS
Cleric - Mace, Staff, Dagger
Druid - Mace, Staff, Dagger
Sorcerer - Staff, Dagger
2. Every member of your party should attain expertise or mastery in their available armor skills.
You should
know, that certain classes can't learn to use some armor skills:
Knight: ALL ARMOR
Paladin: ALL ARMOR
Archer: Leather Armor, Chain Mail
Cleric: Leather Armor, Chain Mail, Shield
Druid: Leather Armor, Shield
Sorcerer: Leather armor

2. Character's statistics, factors, primary and secondary skills.

2.1. Primary statistics.

The primary stats are the Might, the Personality, etc. The factors are the damage that your party
member inflicts
with a hand weapon or a bow, and also, his condition. We'll go through this now.
Might - this stat represents the strength of your character. The higher that value is, the higher
will be the amount
of damage inflicted in combat.
Intellect - represents the ability of your character to perceive the surrounding world. Sorcerer's,
Archer's and
Druid's spell points depend on this skill.
Personality - this skill represents the willpower of your character and his personal charm. Cleric's,
Druid's and
Paladin's spell points depend on their personality.
Endurance - this skill represents the physical might and toughness of your character. This skill
reflects on the
amount of hit points of your character.
Accuracy - this is the skill that represents how accurate is your character with his weapon. Higher
values of this
skill will allow your character to hit more accurate and quickly in combat.
Speed - represents the quickness of your character. This skill increases your character's armor
class and reduces
the recovery time after an attack.
Luck - I don't think this stat needs description...
Resistances - their work is to lower the amount of damage your character will receive after hit with
certain spell.
Be aware, that some points on a resistance won't make your character immune to this spell class
(fire, air, etc.).

2.2. Factors.

Hit points - this is a counter, which shows how much damage your character will endure, before going
unconscious or
dead. You can replenish your character's HP after 8 hours of uninterrupted rest or paying for
healing in a temple.
Spell points - another counter, which shows how much spells you character may cast. This counter may
not go below
zero. When your character gets low on spell points, he won't be able to cast certain spells, until
his Spell points
are replenished. This happens with 8 hours of uninterrupted rest or by paying in a temple for
healing.
Armor Class - this stat shows how difficult will it be for your opponent to hit your character with
arrow or a hand weapon. The more there points are, the better is the chance to evade damage from an
attack.
Condition - shows the current condition of your character. The default condition is good, and all
other conditions
should be cured as soon as possible! They can affect greatly your character's ability to hit, endure
and cast spells
(for instance, if your character is insane and you sleep to heal, when he wakes up, he won't have
any spell points,
unless you have something to regenerate Mana over time).
Quick Spell - this shows which spell your character has prepared to cast when needed. Just press "S"
button to cast
this ready spell.
Age - shows how old your character is. It can be changed by magic and the older your character is,
the weaker he'll become.
Level - shows the development of your character. Every level advancement adds more Hit points and
Spell points to
his amounts.
Experience - this is an indicator for your character's experience. When this indicator is green, you
are able to
train to the next level. If it's white, you may click on it - it will show you how much experience
you need to
advance to the next level.
Attack Bonus - a complex factor of skills, stats, etc. that show your character's chance to hit the
enemy with
his wielded weapon. Attack damage - this field shows the damage your character will inflict with a
successful hit.
Shoot - a complex factor that shows the chance your character has to hit successfully his enemy with
the equipped bow.
Shoot damage - shows the damage inflicted with every successful attack.

2.3. Weapon skills.

Sword - this skill covers all the weapons, longer than a dagger.
Basic: Skill adds to attack bonus
Expert: reduces recovery time
Master: May use a sword in the left hand
Staff - two-handed weapons, good enough for both attack and defense.
Basic: Skill ads to attack bonus
Expert: Skill adds to armor class
Master: chance to stun equal to skill
Dagger - this type of weapons can't inflict large amounts of damage, but are very fast and your
character may be
able to hit twice in one round.
Basic: skill adds to attack bonus
Expert: allowed to use dagger in left hand
Master: chance to inflict triple damage equal to skill
Axe - often all axes are slow, but do inflict lots of damage.
Basic: skill adds to attack bonus
Expert: skill reduces recovery time
Master: skill adds to damage
Spear - this skill covers all weapons of the spear type, like spear, halberd and trident. They can
be wielded in one or both hands, but work better two-handed.
Basic: skill adds to attack bonus
Expert: skill adds to armor class
Master: skill adds to damage
Bow - this skill covers all shooting weapons, except blasters!
Basic: skill added to shoot bonus
Expert: skill reduces recovery time
Master: bow fire two arrows each attack
Mace - this skill covers all weapons from club to mace.
Basic: skill adds to attack bonus
Expert: skill adds to damage
Master: chance to stun equal to skill
Blaster - This is a weapon made before the Silence. Be sure. That it will deal death faster than any
other weapon you've ever seen!
Basic: skill adds to attack bonus
Expert: double effect
Master: Triple effect

2.4. Magic Skills.

First, I should say that all spells' power depends on the level, which your character has attained -
basic,
expertise, and mastery. That's why I will only describe a brief outline of the spell classes.
Fire - is a source of attack spells and spells, afflicting the speed of your characters.
Air - mainly defensive and informative and includes all spells connected with the light.
Water - both defensive and offensive, this spell class is concentrated on moving the objects.
Earth - mainly defensive. The spells are used to strengthen your characters.
Spirit - concentrates on the type of magic that includes life and death. You'll be able to raise
dead bodies,
and resurrect your party members.
Mind - offensive and informative spell class.
Body - includes the spells, connected with the healing and removing harmful effects on your
characters.
Light - is one of the most powerful magic types. Mainly defensive.
Dark - is extremely offensive and includes the most devastating spells in all Enroth.

2.5. Armor.

Leather Armor - the lightest suit of armor that your character may wield, but gives the least
protection. The
good thing is that leather Armor slows the least you character and thus reduces the recovery time.
Basic: skill adds to armor class
Expert: reduces recovery time
Master: Recovery penalty eliminated
Chain Mail - armor of average weight. They offer more defense and protection than the Leather Armor,
but slows
you character a lot.
Basic: skill adds to armor class
Expert: reduces recovery time
Master: Recovery penalty eliminated
Plate Mail Armor - offers great defense and protection, but really, really slows down your character.
Basic: skill adds to armor class
Expert: reduces recovery time
Master: Recovery penalty eliminated
Shield - this skill directly increases your armor class.
Basic: skill adds to armor class
Expert: skill adds to AC (double effect)
Master: skill adds to AC (triple effect)

2.6. Miscellaneous skills.

Identify Item - allows you gain some insights about certain items during the game. The higher this
skill is, the
better your character will identify items. Master is able to identify the strongest item - like
artifacts and relics.
Basic: More points increase the chance of identifying an item
Expert: Double effect of skill
Master: Triple effect of skill
Merchant - helps in buying and selling stuff, making the prices better for you.
Basic: makes prices in shops better for you and your party
Expert: Double effect of skill
Master: Triple effect of skill
Repair Item - allows you characters to repair broken equipment if their skill is high enough. The
better they are
in repairing items, the better broken items (even artifacts or relics) they'll be able to repair.
Basic: more skill points allows the repairing of better items
Expert: Double effect of skill
Master: Triple effect of skill
Body Building - this skill adds directly Hit points to your character's HP totals. The points of
skill multiply
with the class bonus (4 for a knight, 1 for a Sorcerer) and the sum is added to the HP value.
Basic: Skill adds to Hit points
Expert: Double effect of skill
Master: Triple effect of skill
Meditation - skill adds directly Spell points to your character's SP totals - 4 for a Sorcerer, 0
for a Knight.
Basic: skill adds to Spell points
Expert: Double effect of skill
Master: Triple effect of skill
Perception - increases your character's chance to evade damage from blowing chests and noticing
hidden traps and
doors. THIS SKILL IS NECESSARY AT LEAST TO EXPERT LEVEL for one character.
Basic: skill increases chance of finding hidden doors, treasure and evading damage from traps
Expert: Double effect of skill
Master: Triple effect of skill
Diplomacy - helps to decrease the bad effect on your reputation while bribing, begging and
threatening NPC's.
Basic: Skill decreases chance of lowering the reputaion while begging, bribing and threatening NPC's.
Expert: Double effect of skill
Master: Triple effect of skill
Disarm Trap - this skill helps opening a chest without taking damage if it is booby-trapped.
Basic: Better chance of opening chests without taking damage
Expert: Double effect of skill
Master: Triple effect of skill

3. The Obelisk Puzzle.

If you successfully read all obelisks, you'll be able to find the Captain's Treasure. Te obelisks
are in 15
different areas in Enroth and have numbers from1 to 15:
1. Sweet Water (near the big lake)
2. Paradise Valley (after the Temple of Baa)
3. Hermit's Isle (near the oasis)
4. Kriegspire (NE corner of map)
5. Blackshire (in the sands)
6. Dragonsand (near the shrine of the Gods)
7. White Cap (behind Castle Stromgard)
8. Free haven (south of the town)
9. Mire of the damned (south of Snergle's mines)
10. Silver Cove (North part of the map)
11. Bootleg Bay (near the Firelord dungeon)
12. Castle Ironfist (through the releporter)
13. Alamos (near the south shipyard)
14. Mist (through the teleporter on the far-most island)
15. New Sorpigal (in the volcano - you'll need Fly to get in there!)

The Captain's treasure contains two books - "Divine Intervention" and "Dark Containment", 250 000
gold and three artifacts: Guinevere, Morgan and Igraine.

4. Promotion quests

4.1. Knight
First promotion - to become a Cavalier, you must get the Nomination scroll from Chadwick Blackpoole
in the tavern,
which can be found in the village of Rockham. It's extremely simple task - get it and return to
Osric Temper to
become cavaliers.
Second promotion - to become Champions, you must find the Discharge papers scroll. Go to Silver Cove.
In the
northwest corner is the Warlord's Fortress. Clear the fortress from black knights and cuisinarts
(the cuisinarts
tend to give good Golden Plate Armors) and find the scroll in a chest. This scroll contains the info
about the
failure of the Warlord to become a champion. Retrieve it and go to Free Haven to get your final
promotion.
4. 2. Paladin
First promotion - to become a Crusader, you must find "The Damsel in Distress" - Melody Silver. She
is in the Silver
Helm Outpost in Mist. Find the prison area and in one of the cells you'll find an NPC, who tells you
that he'd heard
strange noises from the walls. Go to the end of the corridor and click on the wall. The wall will go
down. Proceed
carefully and you'll get into a guarded room. Inside the room is a lever. Push it. Now steps will
appear near the
entrance to the room. Run to the steps, because they'll disappear quickly. Pun to the platform and
then to the next
platform, till you reach the top. Inside one of the rooms is Melody Silver.
Second promotion - to become a Hero, you must kill a dragon - Longfang Witherhide in his cave in
Darkmoor. Kill him,
get his Claw and return it to Wilbur Humphrey to be promoted.
4.3. Archer
First promotion - you must go to a building in the White Cap area. You'll easily find it - it's
surrounded with archers.
Get inside and clear everything inside. Push the levers in both long corridors and gain entrance to
the throne room. Kill
everything there and take a close look on the smaller throne. There's another lever on it. Push it
and a secret passage
will appear. Inside the new rooms are 4 chests. Inside one of them are the Keys to the Dragon Towers,
which Stromgard
wants you to find.
Second promotion - having the keys, go to New Sorpigal, Free Haven. Mist, Blackshire, Silver Cove
and White Cap and unlock
all Dragon Towers. Then go to Lord Stromgard to get you promotion to Battle Mage. Easy!
4.4. Sorcerer
First promotion - you need to go to Bootleg Bay and drink from the fountain outside the city. That's
all! Return to
Albert Newton in Mist for your promotion.
Second promotion - you'll need to go in the Corlagon's estate, which can be found in Ironfist area,
by going through
the portal. Go inside and clear the whole place, pushing all levers you find. Eventually, you'll get
to a room, where
is a Lich and three Skeleton lords. Kill them and in the chest in the far corner of the room, you'll
find the Terrax's
Crystal. Return it to Albert Newton to become Archmages.
4.5. Cleric
First promotion - this promotion is relatively easy. You need to find a Carpenter and a Stone Cutter
and make them fix
the Temple in Free Haven. Be sure to have taken this quest from Castle Stone! These both NPC's can
be found in the houses
near the temple in Free Haven. Hire them, go to the Temple and they'll do the rest. You may return
to castle Stone and
become a Priest.
Second Promotion - you'll need to go to the Bootleg Bay. On one of the island there, is the Temple
of the Sun. Enter it,
clear everything there, watch out for hidden doors in the large room (you should notice them on the
map) and seek a red
counter. Inside it is the Sacred Chalice. Return it to Lord Stone and everything's ready!
4.6. Druid.
First promotion - go to the Castle Fleise in Silver Cove. Talk to Lady Loretta Fleise and talk to
her. She'll tell you to
visit the Druid Circle in Silver Cove (found on one of the islands) on 20th of March 21st of June
23rd of September or
21st of December. Pray on this date and you'll become a Greater Druid.
Second promotion - Go to the Temple of the Moon near the village of Rockham in Free Haven. Clear the
whole Temple from
enemies, without yet clicking on the altars. After you've done, go to each altar and put the mouse
pointer on it - it'll
tell you what altar is this. Now, click the altars in the next order: Altar of Life, Altar of
Accuracy, Altar of Might,
Altar of Endurance, Altar of Speed, Altar of Luck.  The large door in the center room will now open.
Kill everything
there and pray on the altar with the crystal around midnight. You'll be promoted to Arch Druids.
DON'T GET GREEDY DOING THIS PROMOTION QUEST BEFORE THE OTHER!!! YOU WON'T BE ABLE TO PROMOTO YOUR
DRUID IF YOU DO SO!!!

5. The quests of the Six Lords

To gain entrance to the oracle, you'll need to do all the quests of the six lords. Each one of them
has a specific task
for you. These are the quests (and the lords):
1. Regent Wilbur Humphrey.
You'll have to find Lord Kilburn's Shield. It is in a chest ear Blackshire town, protected by
werewolves.  Kill them
and open the chest, get the shield (if you're lucky, you may even get an artifact there) and return
it to the Regent.
He'll give you his vote... But his representative won't vote for you, for he is a traitor and is
under orders to abstain.
Go to Ironfist and complain to Humphrey - he'll give you the Cloak of Baa (the topic is
"Silvertongue's refusal".
Now, go to Kriegspire and find the Superior Temple of Baa. You'll be allowed to pass, for you have
the cloak. Be sure
to have at least one character with Expert Perception and get inside. Clear the rooms and collect
all the bodies.
In two of the High Priest's bodies, can be found the High Cleric's Key and the High Sorcerer's Key.
Use them to open
the locked chest. Inside is the letter from Zenofex. Bring it to Slicker Silvertongue, and expose
him as a traitor!
He'll threaten you and disappear, making your reputation Saintly.
2. Lord Albert Newton.
Find the room with a single Master Monk and a chest in it.  In this room, there's a switch on the
wall. Push it and a
passage will open. In the passage, there are two chests. One of them is holding the key to Gharik's
Laboratory. Take it
and go to New Sorpigal. On one of the islands you'll find a building, named "Gharik's Forge". Be
sure you're strong to
enter it, because it's not an easy task! Clear the forge and go down the elevator. Open the door and
you'll get into a
room with lots of warlocks and sorcerers. Kill them and proceed to the next room. Go up and up, open
the door and walk
till you get to the Library. Inside the chest is the Hourglass of Time. Bring it back to Newton and
his representative
will vote for you!
3. Lord Osric Temper.
You need to get the "Devil's Plans" scroll. It can be found in the Devil outpost in Kriegspire. The
outpost is in the
canyon between the volcano and the snowy lands. Inside is a "Devil of Baa". He'll drop the scroll
you need. Take it
and head back for Free Haven.
4. Lord Stone.
He wants you to capture the Prince of Thieves. He's in the Free Haven Sewers. Take the quest from
Stone and go to the
Sewers. Take the right passage immediately and kill everything till you hit a room with a wardrobe
and a bed. Click
on the bed, and you'll capture this person. Return him to Stone to get some gold and gratitude.
5. Lady Loretta Fleise.
She wants you to fix the stable prices in all 9 Coach Companies in: New Soprigal, Castle Ironfist,
Free Haven (2),
Silver Cove, Blackshire, White Cap, Kriegspire and Darkmoor.  Click on "Price Fixing" in all these
stables then
return to Loretta for some gold. (Depends on your haste with this mission it's 5000 or 25 000, so
work fast!)
6. Lord Stromgard.
He wants you to put and end to the winter in White Cap. Go to Kriegspire, cast fly or hire a Wind
Master and each
the mountains. On the mountain, there's a tiny hut, where the Hermit, who caused the winter lives.
Ask him to stop
the winter and he'll do so.

6. The Oracle Missions.

After you have done all of the six Lords' quests and exposed Silvertongue, you'll have the
permission to enter the Oracle.
He'll ask you to find his memory modules in order to wake him. They could be found in Alamos,
Kriegspire, Supreme Temple
of Baa (in Hermit's Isle) and Darkmoor.
The crystal in Alamos is protected by a password. In order to get it, you must find the white marble
bridge and jump down.
Kill the Magyars under it and start searching the area after the tunnel. You should find and orange
switch. Press it
and try to find a large hall, full of Air Elementals and Warlocks. Now, kill everything there and
enter the room with
the elevator. You should hear a specific music, showing that the crystal is nearby. Cross the narrow
passage over the
cages and enter the room with the crystal. You'll be asked for a password. It's JBARD. Type it and
go get the crystal!

The crystal in Darkmoor is probably the most difficult to acquire. First, you should find a blind
corridor, in which
at it's end are three Liches, and a plate. Read the plate and a lever will appear. Press the lever
and go search for
the cube with orange walls, hanging from the ceiling. Push it and one of the walls will open!
Proceed through the
opened wall, and fight the eyes till you get to a staircase leading up. Climb on it and press the
wall. A secret
door will open. Walk forward till you find yourself above a large hall, full of Liches and Eyes.
Kill them or run
to the bottom of the hall. In a small niche is the crystal. Take it!

The Crystal in Kriegspire is difficult to locate. Find the four large circles that are forming an
"Arena". You should
be on the second floor of this arena. Walk on the thin edges till you get to the very center of it.
You should see a
column and a light green switch on it. Press it and return to the orange door before the arena. It
should now open.
Walk into the corridor and you'll son have the Crystal on visual! In the Prison area, where the
cages are, you will
find a Letter from Roland (Ironfist). Take it. Take the crystal and get out of here.

The Crystal in the Supreme temple of Baa is easy to locate. Just travel down and down, till you
reach the lowest floor,
just before the magma. You'll find a bridge and levers on all the entrances. Just press the switches
till you get access
to the room with the crystal! Take it and all is done. You have all four crystals, required to wake
the oracle. You'll
get 100 000 experience for each placed crystal, so go straight to Free Haven, get your reward and
level up. After this
is done. The Oracle will ask you to find the Control Cube, which allows you to go in the Control
Center, where you may
find blasters. Pretty good weapons!

Now, it is the time to go to Dragonsand and enter the Temple of VARN - it's building, which looks
like a pyramid. Clear
the entrance area and enter the room that is full of Genies and a single Defender of VARN. Kill them
and collect the
bodies. You should find a key. New enter the large room. Go left and find the door in the left wall.
Kill everything
there and find the switch, which looks like a scarab. Press it and a chest will appear. Open it and
take EVERYTHING
that is inside. Take the Crystal skull and put in your inventory. Then, enter the inventory, pick
the skull and close
the window. You still hold the skull, right? Thus you'll never suffer radiation damage while in this
pyramid. The
drawback is that you won't be able to collect bodies, for the skull will go back to your inventory.
I propose that
you go on a money-collecting raid after you've killed everything here.
Now, go to the large room once again and enter the red door. Kill everything here and jump through
the opening in the
floor. You'll reach a hexagon. Now, find the corridor with orange wall and clean it, until you find
a room. Inside
there's a chest. Open it and you'll find another scroll, another key and a few items.
Return to the room with the pools and the Well of VARN. Go north and take the west (left) passage.
Kill everything
till you hit a door. Open it and proceed in the corridor. Kill the two genies and you'll reach the
Back Door. You have
the key for it, so open it and proceed right near the wall. Continue walking in this direction till
you reach a path
leading upwards. Climb on it and you'll reach the Water Temple. You have the key for it, so open the
door. Now, go kill
everything and find the chest. Inside it is another code, another key and a few items.
Return through the corridor leading to the Back Door till you reach the place, where you've fought
with the Guardians
of VARN. There is a big entrance to the south, which leads to the library. Running or fighting -
your choice, get to
the library and open the chest. Get the new scroll and the new key. Then click on the two pictures
near the chest.
You'll find the last 2 scrolls.
You need to go back to the room with the Well of VARN. Get all message scrolls and the key in one
single character
and jump into each pool. Write:
- For Communication Officer - ARUHU
- For Navigator - ULUS
- For Engineer - YTTOCS
- For First Mate - KCOPS
- For Doctor - YOCCM
After you're done, go to the Well of VARN, cast Feather Fall (or you should stick to the walls!) and
write the Captain's
Code (KRIK). Fall down and kill all the units. Inside the chest are the Control Cube and some items.
Return the Cube to
the Oracle.

Now, you'll be able to get in the Control Center. Just go to the first room to the left and read the
plate. You'll get
the Blaster skill!
In the Control Center, you will find 8 Blasters and 4 Blaster Rifles. Be sure you've found all four
Rifles before you
get out! They are much more powerful and efficient than the little blasters. Unfortunately, you
can't use two blasters
at a time :-)) Pity...
You'll need the blasters to destroy the reactor in the Hive, located in the village of Sweet Water.
But first, you should
go to Castle Ironfist and talk to prince Nicolay. He'll ask you to find the Third Eye, a gem, which
is required to open
the Archibald's vault, where the Tanir's Bell is. The Gem is in the well near the castle. Click on
the well and you get
it. Now, return to the castle and trade the gem for the Tanir's bell. Go to the library above the
Castle and free
Archibald. He'll thank you and gives you "The Ritual of the Void" (the scroll, required to evade
reactor's explosion,
which will consume the Earth), and will disappear.

Now, you are free to go to the Hive and finish the game.


7. Artifacts and Relics in the game

Finding artifacts or relics isn't easy. The places, where you may find lots of these wonderful items
are Paradise Valley,
Hermit's Isle and Dragonsand. Some exceptions are: Excalibur (the artifact sword in Eel-Infested
Waters - requires 200+
Might to get it), Mordred (the Artifact Dagger in the Dragoon's Keep in Free Haven) and artifacts,
which are found in
the chest after solving the obelisk quest: Igraine, Morgan and Guinevere.

So:
1. Zeus
Type: Relic
Item: Plate Armor AC: 64
Special powers: +50 to Hit points, Spell points and Luck, -50 Intellect
2. Apollo
Type: Relic
Item: Chain Mail AC: 46
Special powers: +20 to Luck, Resistances and -30 Endurance
3. Hercules
Type: Relic
Item: Two-Handed Sword
Special powers: +50 Might, +20 Endurance, - 50 Intellect
Attack: +12 Damage: 4d5 +12
4. Cronos
Type: Relic
Item: Axe
Special powers: +100 Hit points, -50 Luck
Attack: +14 Damage: 4d2 +14
5. Odin
Type: Relic
Item: Crown
Special powers: +50 to all resistances, -40 Speed
6. Atlas
Type: Relic
Item: Cloak AC: 16
Special powers: +100 Might, -40 Speed
7. Hades
Type: Relic
Item: Longsword
Special powers: +20p. Poison damage, +20 Luck, thievery and negative HP regeneration
Attack: +15 Damage: 3d3 +15
8. Ares
Type: Relic (?)
Item: Mace
Special powers: +30 Fire damage, +25 Fire resistance
Attack: +14 Damage: 4d2 +14
NOTE: The reason I put a question mark here was this: artifacts only give to stats and never take
anything. Relics give
a lot and take a lot. Since Ares only increases you damage and Fire Resistance, it should be
considered as an
ARTIFACT, not a RELIC).
9. Athena
Type: Relic
Item: Amulet
Special powers: +100 Intellect, -40 Might
10. Hera
Type: Relic
Item: Amulet
Special powers: +50 to Hit points, Spell points, luck and -50 Personality
11. Aphrodite
Type: Relic
Item: Ring
Special powers: +100 Personality, -40 Luck
12. Hermes
Type: Relic
Item: Boots AC: 17
Special powers: +100 Speed, -40 Might
13. Aegis
Type: Relic
Item: Shield AC: 29
Special powers: Immune to Stone, Shielding, +20 Luck and -20 Speed
14. Artemis
Type: Relic
Item: Longbow
Special powers: +20 Elec. Damage, -10 to all resistances
Attack: +12 Damage: 5d2 +12
15. Poseidon
Type: Relic
Item: Trident
Special powers: +20 to Might, Endurance and Accuracy, -10 to Speed and AC
Attack: +15 Damage: 2d6 +15
16. Pellinore
Type: Artifact
Item: Plate armor AC: 56
Special powers: +30 to Endurance, Hit recovery and Regenerates Hit Points
17. Excalibur
Type: Artifact
Item: Broadsword
Special powers: +30 Might
Attack: +12 Damage: 3d4 +12
18. Lucius
Type: Artifact
Item: Boots AC: 14
Special powers: +30 Speed
19. Thor
Type: Artifact
Item: Hammer (Mace)
Special powers: Force
Attack: +12 Damage: 2d5 +12
20. Guinevere
Type: Artifact
Item: Ring
Special powers: Z+30 Spell points, of Light Magic, of Dark Magic
21. Mordred
Type: Artifact
Item: Dagger
Special powers: Vampiric
Attack: +8 Damage: 2d3 +8
22. Igraine
Type: Artifact
Item: Ring
Special powers: +25 Spells points, "of Body, Mind and Spirit magic"
23. Merlin
Type: Artifact
Item: Staff
Special powers: Swiftness, +40 Spell points
Attack: +8 Damage: 2d4 +8
24. Morgan
Type: Artifact
Item: Amulet
Special powers: +40 Spell points, "Of Fire, Air, Water and Earth Magic"
25. Conan
Type: Artifact
Item: Two-Handed Axe
Special powers: Devil and Dragon Slaying)
Attack: +10 Damage: 3d7 +10
26. Galahad
Type: Artifact
Item: Chain Mail AC: 36
Special powers: +25 Hit points, of Protection (+10 to resistances)
27. Valeria
Type: Artifact
Item: Small Shield AC: 20
Special powers: +30 Accuracy and Shielding
28. Percival
Type: Artifact
Item: Longbow
Special powers: Swiftness and Carnage
Attack: +10 Damage: 5d2 +10
29. Pendragon
Type Artifact
Item: Cloak AC: 11
Special powers: +30 Luck, thievery, Immune to poison
30. Arthur
Type: Artifact
Item: Crown
Special powers: +25 Spell points, of the Gods (+10 to all stats)

These are all the Artifacts and Relics in the game. Just to be sure, I used Might and Magic VI
Character editor to see
if there are any more. No, there weren't any new artifacts or relics, so I assume that these are all
available in the
game.

8. The simple weapons, armor and magical items in the game

8.1. Swords - this is the most common fighting weapon throughout Enroth. Good enough for both Attack
and Defense,
they are preferred from all Knights and Paladins.

1. Long Sword
Type: Longsword
Attack: +0 Damage: 3d3 +0
Value: 50
2. Warrior Sword
Type: Longsword
Attack: +3 Damage: 3d3 + 3
Value: 200
3. Crusader Sword
Type: Longsword
Attack: +6 Damage: +6
Value: 350
4. Champion Sword
Type: Longsword
Attack: +9 Damage: 3d3 +9
Value: 500
5. Lionheart Sword
Type: Longsword
Attack: +12 Damage: 3d3 +12
Value: 650
6. Broadsword
Type: Broadsword
Attack: +0 Damage: 3d4 +0
Value: 100
7. Steel Broadsword
Type: Broadsword
Attack: +4 Damage: 3d4 +4
Value: 300
8. Mighty Broadsword
Type: Broadsword
Attack: +10 Damage: 3d4 +10
Value: 600
9. Two-Handed Sword
Type: Two-Handed Sword
Attack: + 0 Damage: 4d5 +0
Value: 400
10. Great Sword
Type: Two-Handed Sword
Attack: +2 Damage: 4d5 +2
Value: 500
11. Heroic Sword
Type: Two-Handed Sword
Attack: +8 Damage: 4d5 +8
Value: 800
12. Cutlass
Type: Cutlass
Attack: +0 Damage: 2d4 +0
Value: 40
13. Pirate Cutlass
Type: Cutlass
Attack: +5 Damage: 2d4 +5
Value: 290
14. Master Cutlass
Type: Cutlass
Attack: +11 Damage: 2d4 +11
Value: 590

These are all the weapons that the "Sword" skill covers. If you learn it, you'll be able to use any
of the listed
weapons.

8.2. Dagger - these weapons are easy to use, fast and very, very deadly.

1. Dagger.
Type: Dagger
Attack: +0 Damage: 2d2 +0
Value: 8
2. Blood Dagger
Type: Dagger
Attack: +2 Damage: 2d2 + 2
Value: 100
3. Shadow dagger
Type: Dagger
Attack: +3 Damage: 2d2 +3
Value: 150
4. Mage Dagger
Type: Dagger
Attack: +5 Damage: 2d2 +5
Value: 250
5. Jeweled dagger
Type: Dagger
Attack: +6 Damage: 2d2 +6
Value: 300
6. Long Dagger
Type: Long Dagger
Attack: +0 Damage: 2d3 +0
Value: 15
7. Piercing Dagger
Type: Long Dagger
Attack: +4 Damage: 2d3 +4
Value: 200
8. Divine Dagger
Type: Long Dagger
Attack: +7 Damage: 2d3 +7
Value: 350

It is advisable to use the Dagger skill for your Druids and Sorcerers. Raise it to level 4, make
them experts and
then put two daggers in their hands. If you do so, you'll easily make them good fighters and just
raise their magic
skills then and forget about the weapons.

8.3. Axe - axes are very deadly attacking weapons, usually inflicting large amounts of damage. The
drawback is that
they are usually slow...

1. Hand Axe.
Type: Axe
Attack: +0 Damage: 4d2 +0
Value: 30
2. Battle Axe
Type: Axe
Attack: +2 Damage: 4d2 +2
Value: 100
3. War Axe
Type: Axe
Attack: +5 Damage: 4d2 +5
Value: 250
4. Dwarven Axe
Type: Axe
Attack: +8 Damage: 4d2 +8
Value: 400
5. Supreme Axe
Type: Axe
Attack: +11 Damage: 4d2 +11
Value: 550
6. Poleax
Type: Two-Handed Axe
Attack: +0 Damage: 3d7 +0
Value: 225
7. Heavy Poleax
Type: Two-Handed Axe
Attack: +3 Damage: 3d7 +3
Value: 450
8. Grand Poleax
Type: Two-Handed Axe
Attack:  +9 Damage: 3d7 +9
Value: 900

8.4. Spear - the perfect defensive weapon for your characters, it may be wielded in one or in both
hands - with a
bonus if used two-handed.

1. Spear
Type: Spear
Attack: +0 Damage: 1d9 +0
Value: 15
2. Stout Spear
Type: Spear
Attack: +1 Damage: 1d9 +1
Value: 100
3. Serpent Spear
Type: Spear
Attack: +5 Damage: 1d9 +5
Value: 450
4. Savage Spear
Type: Spear
Attack: +9 Damage: 1d9 +9
Value: 550
5. Sacred Spear
Type: Spear
Attack: +13 Damage: 1d9 +13
Value: 650
6. Halberd
Type: Halberd
Attack: +0 Damage: 3d6 +0
Value: 200
7. Massive Halberd
Type: Halberd
Attack: +4 Damage: 3d6 +4
Value: 450
8. Elite Halberd
Type: Halberd
Attack: +10 Damage: 3d6 +10
Value: 900
9. Trident
Type: Trident
Attack: + 0 Damage: 2d6 +0
Value: 100
10. Ornate Trident
Type: Trident
Attack: +6 Damage: 2d6 +6
Value: 400
11. Titanic Trident
Type: Trident
Attack: +12 Damage: 2d6 +12
Value: 700

If you have doubts what weapon to choose for your characters, choose Spear. It has both defensive
and offensive
capabilities, allowing it to be the best personal weapon, inflicting a considerable amount of damage.

8.5. Bow - This is a must-have skill. It can be learned by all characters and is the most important
in long-range
combat, when your characters are counting on spells or on missile weapons.

1. Longbow
Type: Longbow
Shoot: +0 Damage: 5d2 +0
Value: 100
2. Elven Bow
Type: Longbow
Shoot: +2 Damage: 5d2 +2
Value: 200
3. Precision Bow
Type: Longbow
Shoot: +4 Damage: 5d2 +4
Value: 300
4. Magic Bow
Type: Longbow
Shoot: +6 Damage: 5d2 +6
Value: 400
5. Stellar Bow
Type: Longbow
Shoot: +8 Damage: 5d2 +8
Value: 500
6. Crossbow
Type: Crossbow
Shoot: +0 Damage: 4d2 +0
Value: 50
7. Accurate Crossbow
Type: Crossbow
Shoot: +3 Damage: 4d2 +3
Value: 200
8. True Crossbow
Type: Crossbow
Shoot: +7 Damage: 4d2 +7
Value: 400

Be sure to get this skill for all characters and master it as soon as possible. You may kill some of
the monsters
by just running and shooting at them, believe me!

8.6 Mace - The mace is a good fighting weapon. It starts to add points to damage on expert level,
which means that
this kind of weapon is a good option for a Knight or a Paladin.

1. Mace
Type: Mace
Attack: +0 Damage: 2d4 +0
Value: 50
2. Wicked Mace
Type: Mace
Attack: +2 Damage: 2d4 +2
Value: 150
3. Thunder Mace
Type: Mace
Attack: +5 Damage: 2d4 +5
Value: 300
4. Wonder Mace
Type: Mace
Attack: +8 Damage: 2d4 +8
Value: 450
5. Death Mace
Type: Mace
Attack: +11 Damage: 2d4 +11
Value: 600
6. Hammer
Type: Hammer
Attack: +0 Damage: 2d5 +0
Value: 120
7. Dark Hammer
Type: Hammer
Attack: +3 Damage: 2d5 +3
Value: 300
8. Holy Hammer
Type: Hammer
Attack: +7 Damage: 2d5 +7
Value: 600

Nice weapon! It tends to inflict lots of damage and on master level gives your character an
opportunity to stun
his opponent. Quite good, if you act in turn-based mode!

8.7. Clubs - the weakest weapon of all - get rid of it when there any other better item available.

1. Club
Type: Club
Attack: +0 Damage: 1d3 +0
Value: 1
2. Spiked Club
Type: Club
Attack: +3 Damage: 1d3 +3
Value: 40
3. Killer Club
Type: Club
Attack: +5 Damage: 1d3 +5
Value: 100

The clubs aren't all-game weapons. You may find them useful at the very beginning, but only at these
early stages of
the game - later on they become useless!

8.8. Staff - the Staff is a wonderful weapon for Druids and Sorcerers. They don't hit hard at all,
but tend to carry
strong enchantments and add to defense.

1. Staff
Type: Staff
Attack: +0 Damage: 2d4 +0
Value: 40
2. Emerald Staff
Type: Staff
Attack: +3 Damage: 2d4 +3
Value: 200
3. Power Staff
Type: Staff
Attack: +7 Damage: 2d4 +7
Value: 500

Staves are weapons for the non-combat classes - Druids and Sorcerers, for these two tend to have
weak armor, low
armor class and low HP totals.

8.9. Blaster - The Ancient weapons are the best personal weapons ever to be found. Unfortunately,
they become
available only when you gain access to the Control Center...
1. Blaster
Type: Ancient Weapon
Attack: +8 Damage: 3d5 +8
Value: 0 (usually 1 gold)
2. Blaster Rifle
Type: Ancient Weapon
Attack: +12 Damage: 5d5 +12
Value: 0 (usually 1 gold)

8.10 Leather Armor - lightweight armor, won't afflict weapon speed at all, but provides the least
defense.

1. Leather Armor
Type: Leather Armor
Armor: +4
Value: 150
2. Studded Leather
Type: Leather Armor
Armor: +6
Value: 250
3. Enchanted Leather
Type: Leather Armor
Armor: +10
Value: 450
4. Dragon Leather
Type: Leather Armor
Armor: +16
Value: 750
5. Imperial Leather
Type: Leather Armor
Armor: +24
Value: 1250

8.11. Chain Mail - better and heavier than the leather armor, provides considerable protection, but
slows your character.

1. Chain Mail
Type: Chain Mail
Armor: +8
Value: 400
2. Steel Chain Mail
Type: Chain Mail
Armor: +12
Value: 600
3. Noble Chain Mail
Type: Chain Mail
Armor: +18
Value: 900
4. Royal Chain Mail
Type: Chain Mail
Armor: +26
Value: 1300
5. Majestic Chain Mail
Type: Chain Mail
Armor: +36
Value: 1800

8.12. Plate Armor - the heaviest kind of armor, provides great body protection, but slows down your
hero more
than a Chain Mail does.

1. Plate Armor
Type: Plate Armor
Armor: +20
Value: 1000
2. Steel Plate Armor
Type: Plate Armor
Armor: +28
Value: 1400
4. Golden Plate Armor
Type: Plate Armor
Armor: +54
Value: 2700

8.13. Shield - shield is a good choice when you're using one-handed weapon and you're not intended
to switch to
two weapons at all.

1. Kite Shield
Type: Large Shield
Armor: +6
Value: 200
2. Tower Shield
Type: Large Shield
Armor: +7
Value: 300
3. Castle Shield
Type: Large Shield
Armor: +9
Value: 400
4. Celestial Shield
Type: Large Shield
Armor: +13
Value: 500
5. Olympian Shield
Type: Large Shield
Armor: +19
Value: 800
6. Wooden Shield
Type: Small Shield
Armor: +4
Value: 100
7. Bronze Shield
Type: Small Shield
Armor: +6
Value: 200
8. Steel Shield
Type: Small Shield
Armor: +8
Value: 300
9. Spirit Shield
Type: Small Shield
Armor: +12
Value: 450
10. Astral Shield
Type: Small Shield
Armor: +18
Value: 750

8.14 Helms, Cloaks, Boots, and Gauntlets - these are additional defensive items that can be wielded
by your characters.

1. Helm
Type: Helm
Armor: +2
Value: 60
2. Steel Helm
Type: Helm
Armor: +6
Value: 260
3. Guardian Helm
Type: Helm
Armor: +8
Value: 460
4. Defender Helm
Type: Helm
Armor: +10
Value: 660
5. Angelic Helm
Type: Helm
Armor: +12
Value: 860
6. Leather Cloak
Type: Cloak
Armor: +1
Value: 50
7. Phantom Cloak
Type: Cloak
Armor: +3
Value: 150
8. Elven Cloak
Type: Cloak
Armor: +5
Value: 250
9. Cardinal Cloak
Type: Cloak
Armor: +7
Value: 450
10. Doom's Day Cloak
Type: Cloak
Armor: +9
Value: 750
11. Leather Boots
Type: Boots
Armor: +2
Value: 50
12. Steel Boots
Type: Boots
Armor: +6
Value: 250
13. Armored Boots
Type: Boots
Armor: +8
Value: 450
14. Sterling Boots
Type: Boots
Armor: +10
Value: 650
15. Ultimate Boots
Type: Boots
Armor: +12
Value: 850
16. Gauntlets
Type: Gauntlets
Armor: +3
Value: 100
17. Knight Gauntlets
Type: Gauntlets
Armor: +6
Value: 250
18. Paladin Gauntlets
Type: Gauntlets
Armor: +8
Value: 450
19. Cavalier Gauntlets
Type: Gauntlets
Armor: +10
Value: 650
20. Ultimate Gauntlets
Type: Gauntlets
Armor: +12
Value: 650


9. Solving the side quests.

Solving the side quests is not important for the game, but doing so will earn you money, respect and
levels up!
1. Returned the Prince.
This mission is taken from Castle Ironfist and you objectives are to return little Prince to the
castle. Talk to
him, click on "Boredom" and he'll ask you to get him to the circus. But he'll run away as soon as he
can, so
you'll have to find him. He's where the circus is - in April in Blackshire, in August in Darkmoor
and December in
Bootleg Bay. Retrn him to the castle and you'll get some experience to advance a few levels. Be
warned, that if
he's missing, you won't be granted permission to enter castle Ironfist!

2. Killed Snergle.
Speak to the Dwarf in the tavern in Darkmoor. He'll ask you to find and kill Snergle - the usurper
of the Dwarven
throne. This is also a required quest if you want to master the axe. You must first go to the
"Snergle's Iron Mines"
in Darkmoor and find "Snergle's Key". It's in a person, who was captured and locked in there. But
first of all,
You'll have to find a small key that opens his cell. Do it and he'll give you the required item.
Then go to Ironfist
area and find "Snergle's Caverns" through the teleporter. Enter it and try to collect all the gold
and gems that are
found in the caves. After you reach the door, be warned! When you unlock it, you'll get surrounded
by dwarves and may
die if you can't escape into the large room or with a portal or beacon. In any way, start killing
the dwarfs and
collecting their bodies. In one of the bodies (that of Snergle), you'll find a fine axe. Bring it to
Anviril Smithers
and he'll start teaching you to Master Axe skill.

3. Saved the Mayor of Mist.
You must get this mission from the Town Hall in Mist. Go to the Silver Helm outpost. Find the room
with a single
Master Monk inside and a swith on one of the walls. Inside the chest you can find "Enemies list"
scroll. Bring this
proof, that the next victim will be the mayor of Mist to the town hall and you'll get some gold and
experience.

4. Retrieved Baa Candelabra.
You must get this mission from Andover Portbello in the New Sorpigal's tavern. Go to the Abandoned
temple outside the
town and enter it. Kill the bats and enter the right door behind the stairs. Kill the snakes and
open the chest.
You'll find the missing candelabra. Be warned, that helping Baa will decrease your reputation!

5. Retrieved Andrew's Harp.
Go to Ironfist and take this mission in the house near the stables. Now, go to Dragoon's Caverns in
the same area.
This mission requires a lot of fighting and killing, and of course, pulling a few levers. Kill and
advance further
into the dungeon till you reach a room with six chests and some guardians inside. Kill them and open
the SECOND chest.
Inside it is the harp. Return it to get some gold and experience.

6. Retrieved Ethric's Skull.
Go to the Temple area in Free Haven and search about the houses. You'll find an alchemist, who wants
you to find
the skull of the First Lich, Ethric the Mad. Travel to the south till you hit the river. Now, go
east till you hit
the mountain. Here's the entrance to the "Tomb of Ethric the Mad". The tomb itself is now hard to
complete, assuming
you can fight the liches. Just press all switches you come upon till you find the room with liches.
There are a few
such rooms and Ethric is in one of them. Be sure to collect all bodies - you'll find "... an item
(Skull)". Return it
to the Alchemist and he'll give you 7500 gold and surely you'll gain a few levels. WARNING! While
searching the niches,
you can catch a disease!!!

7. Killed the Spider Queen.
Please read the information about "Rescued Angela" and "Retrieved Baa Candelabra" missions first.
After you have saved the girl, continue venturing into the Abandoned Temple. You'll reach two small
rooms, full of
snakes and with a chest and six snake eggs lying on the ground. Kill the enemies and collect the
Eggs and the items
in the chest. Now, continue walking forward until you hit the large room with the spiders. Now,
don't go into it, just
wait in the entrance. The spiders will come alone, I assure you! Kill them and in one of the bodies
you'll find the
Spider Queen's heart. Now, go to the end of the room and open the wooden door. You'll find a chest
with some GOOD
items inside! (The last time I found a Stellar Bow and a Cardinal Cloak)

8. Saved the Monolith
You must get this quest from Silver Cove and find "The Monolith" building in the same area. Inside
it are quite big
bunch of Druids and Earth Elementals, who may prove to be tough opponents if your party isn't that
strong yet.
However, be sure to click on all rocks, trees, stones, etc. They will either give you money or open
passages, doors,
etc. You'll find lots of gold inside! When you reach the Altar room and deface the Monolith, all
Clerics and
Druids in your party will gain +5 Personality permanent. You'll also get 3000 gold for completing
this mission!

9. Destroyed the Wicked Crystal.
Go to Bootleg bay and take the mission from the house in the temple. Now, travel to the "Temple of
the Fist" - it
is to the west of the main town, when you're facing the temple. This mission is no that hard to
complete and the
only problem may be the locked door of the inner sanctum of the Temple, where is the crystal itself.
To open it,
find the white arrow behind the three barrels and push it. The wall will move, allowing you to push
a newly
discovered button. It will open the locked door for you. Kill everything in the inner sanctum and
destroy the
crystal by clicking on him.
Now, return to the house for your reward.

10. Rescued Emmanuel.
Go to Blackshire to take this mission. Emmanuel can be found in the Temple of the Snake in the same
area in a little
island - this means you'll have to either have "Water Walk" of "Fly" spell. Otherwise, you must take
the damage
from drowning...
Nevertheless, you are now inside the building. Start killing everything there (well, you may have
certain difficulties
with the Gold Dragon inside!) and then jump in the pit under the dragon. Take a close look at the
walls and you'll
find a button. Push it and continue the fight with these medusas. It is advisable to have
"Protection from magic"
cast at all times, because the medusas tend to stone your characters!
You'll soon get into a large hall, full of medusas. Kill them and you'll see two cages there. In one
of them is
Emmanuel. Return him to his wife and you'll get a little gold and a lot of gratitude!

11. Found Zoltan's Artifact.
Now, this is a mission you're going to like! Go to Free Haven, and near behind the Training Grounds,
you'll find
the house of Zoltan Phelps the Merchant. He'll ask you to find a powerful artifact for him - Mordred.
This long
dagger is in the Dragoons Keep to the south (south end of map) from Free Haven. Enter this building
and if you can
endure the fight with lots of enemies there, start venturing into this dungeon! Its corridors aren't
spacey, so if
you have the "Sparks" spell, it should work perfectly.
Be warned that the levers that open the locked doors are really far from the passages, so you may
have to walk
quite a bit till you get to the opened door. Proceed down the stairs and open the wooden doors using
the levers
in the wall. The pull all the levers and be sure to pull the lever in the bottom room last. The door
will close -
a trap! If you're low on HP, you have enough time to rest and heal. After the rest, you'll have 2
attacks of rats
and one attack of fighters. Kill them all and return to the main corridor. Now, the keep door is
open. Kill the
Fighters there and open the chest. The artifact is inside.
But now comes the fun! Return the artifact to Zoltan Phelps and he'll tell you that he was expecting
something
much grander than this "knife". So, he'll refuse to take it and pay you 30 000 gold for finding it!
Isn't that
wonderful? You get money and an artifact together!

12. Rescued Sherell.
Go to Free Haven and in the port area lives a person, who'll give you this quest. Now, you need to
travel to Bootleg
Bay, to the northern island (you can get there from Mist) and enter the temple of Tsantsa. Usually,
you'll have to
clear the whole temple form enemies, for there are some levers to pull. I urge you to kill
everything in there and
then try to find the room with the big white lever. Push it and then go to the room of the female
cannibals and pull
the next lever. Now, find the room to the south of the hall with the colored doors (it has five
bones in it, you
can't miss it!), pull the next lever and you'll gain access to the hall. Kill everything there again
and you'll soon
find the prison area. Now, return to the rooms of the male cannibals and open the chests there, if
you haven't yet.
In one of them is the "Cell Key", which is required to open the prison door. Talk to Sherell and
return her to Free
Haven and get the reward.

13. Rescued Sharry.
Go to the Town Hall in New Sorpigal to get this quest. Now, travel to the Shadow Guild Hideout in
the Castle Ironfist
area. Enter the area and you'll find yourself in a blind corridor. Open the door to the left and
kill the enemies.
Near the door on the wall you can find a lever. Push in and the wall that was blocking the corridor
will disappear.
Continue forward now till you find a door to the left. Open it and enter the next hall. Kill the
Thugs and the Brigands
and leave the room from the opposite door.
You'll find yourself in another blind corridor. Enter the room to the left - it is something like
storage. Between the
barrels on the east wall of the room you'll find a new switch that will open the rest of the Shadow
Guild hideout
dungeon. Enter the room to the right, kill everything there and open the chest - it contains the key
required to open
the locked door in the beginning. Sharry is inside this room. Return her to the Town Hall in New
Sorpigal for a nice
reward.

14. Rescued Angela.
You must travel to New Sorpigal to take this quest. After you're done, go to the Abandoned Temple
near the town.
Please read the instruction for the "Retrieved Baa Candelabra" quest. After you've taken the
Candelabra, continue
venturing deeper into the temple, till you reach a large room with Snakes, Bats and Spiders inside.
This room has a
passage leading to the right and downwards. Walk into it and in the new room you'll find the little
girl.

15. Broke the Blackshire curse.
This quest is taken from Blackshire. Go to the "Lair of the Wolf" near the town and fight till you
get to the room
with a Wolf Head in the middle and a white altar. Now, search carefully the passages to the left and
to the right.
In one of them is the Ghost of Balthazar - a soldier, who lost his life while fighting the
Werewolves. He'll ask you
to find the Pearl of Purity in the opposite corridor. Search carefully the opposite passage and
you'll come upon
the pearl. Now, use it to purify the altar. The Blackshire curse is broken!
Talk to Balthazar again. He'll ask you to bring the pearl to Wilbur Humphrey, whom actually, it
belongs and he'll a
sk you to find the Pearl of Putrescence, the Black Pearl. Now you can return to Blackshire and tell
the good lady
that you've done the quest and bring the pearl to the Regent.

16. Killed the Werewolf leader.
So, you want to complete the dungeon? OK then! After you've destroyed the altar, the wall in the
wolf's jaws will
disappear. Continue to the right and fight till you get to the teleport stairs. Now, start searching
the area for a
large room full with lots of Werewolves. One of them is the Werewolf Leader, who is holding the
Pearl of Putrescence.
Collect his body and return the Pearl to Balthazar.

17. Solved the Goblinwatch Combination.
Go to New Sorpigal's Town Hall to take this quest. The lady will give you the "Key to Goblinwatch" -
use it to enter
the outpost.
Now, you're inside! Open the door to your right. Continue moving along the corridor till you get in
the room with the
panels on the wall and goblins inside. Kill the enemies and push the red panels on the walls. Some
of them will reveal
chests. In one of them is the Goblinwatch combination scroll.

18. Returned with the Chime of Harmony.
Go to the Town Hall in New Sorpigal to take this quest. It will appear after you've finished the
"Solved Goblinwatch
Combination" quest.
Now, travel to the "Temple of Baa" in Castle Ironfist area. The temple looks empty... But it's not
that! After you
enter each room, you'll be attacked. In each room you'll find a key. The first key is in a statuette
in a blind corridor
with lots of curves. You'll find it easily!
The problem may be the central area of the largest hall after the entrance. It has four doors and
four plates. Click
the doors using the following order - north, east, west, and south. But, if oriented using the map
directions, it's -
south, west, east, and north. The doors will open, but be warned - after you open the chest, you'll
be ambushed by
quite big bunch of Apprentices and Skeletons.
After you've killed them and have found "The Hidden Door key" and "The Treasure Room Key", you may
open the door with
the fireball trap. Walk carefully, evading the fire blasts and continue up. You'll reach another big
room. Kill
everything there, but be warned! After you go behind the altar with the gong, the room will fill
with skeletons!
If you want, open the hidden door and escape in the corridors. Walk to the left and using the
Treasure room key,
open the hidden door above the large room with the skeletons. You'll enter a smaller room with a
chest. Inside it
is the Chime of Harmony. Return it to New Sorpigal to collect the 5000 gold reward.
But there's another treasure room here, on the opposite end of the corridor. Walk to the right this
time and carefully
search the wall after you go past the curve. You should find hidden 5000 gold coins. Having found
them, continue up
and open the next hidden door (should be visible on the map already!) - you'll find yourself in the
Treasure room.
There's a lot of gold here!

19. Retrieved Emil's Egg.
Go to Kriegspire town and take this mission. Now, enter Castle Kriegspire. Kill the Minotaurs that
are guarding the
entrance and walk left after entering the small corridor. You should find a wooden door. Open it and
continue the
search. In a fine-looking niche you'll find a chest. Inside it is the Emil's egg. Be careful! The
egg itself is
not mentioned as a "QUEST ITEM" in its description!

20. Placed Twillen's Statuettes.
Go to Blackshire and find Twillen's house. He'll ask you to place the statuettes inside the chest,
which can be found
just outside his house on the pedestals in Sweet Water, Dragonsand, Mire of the Damned, Kriegspire
and Bootleg Bay. Do
it and return to Twillen. The reward is nice!

21. Aided the Lord of Fire
Go to the "Hall of the Firelord" in Bootleg Bay area and enter the building. Talk to the colored
head you'll see on
your entering the dungeon and he'll ask you to unlock the warded doors. This happens when you have
an amber piece
with you and click on the door. The first door is ornamented and colored in yellow. The next door is
somewhat buried
in the ceiling and is gray. Click on the first, then on the second and you'll open the warded doors.
Return to the
Firelord for some experience bonus.
(Using the bug, you can click over and over to get more experience added - click about 8-10 minutes
to get you
characters' experience to 16777126 - the maximum amount for now, allowing you go reach level 183.)

22. Delivered the 6th Letter to Wilbur Humphrey.
This is the letter, which your first character is carrying in his backpack at the beginning of the
game. First, go
to New Sorpigal's tavern and show the letter to Andover Portbello. He'll give you 1000 gold. Now,
you may go to
castle Ironfist and show this letter to the Regent. He'll take it and give you 5000 more gold.

23. Allowed to use the Royal Yacht.
After you're done with the six lords' quests, go to castle Ironfist and speak to Wilbur Humphrey.
He'll tell you that
now, you may use the Royal Yacht to travel to Hermit's Isle... Travel length - 21 days!?

24. Destroyed the Book of Liches.
Please read carefully the description of finding the Memory Crystal in Darkmoor castle. After you've
taken the Crystal,
click on the plate under the cube. A message will appear "The Fires of Death shall burn forever" and
the cube will
change its color. Click on the cube and you'll find yourself in a room, in which on a small pedestal
lies the Book of
Liches. Destroy it and return to Terry Ross in the village beneath the Castle to get 5000 gold and
some experience.
(If you steal from the dead, though you may find really good items, you'll get you reputation
lowered quite a bit!!!)

25. Super Goober.
You don't have to get this quest from anywhere - it simply exists. Enter the Control Center and try
to find the
large room with lots of Units of each type (Patrol, Enforcer, Terminator) and destroy them. Walk
near the wall to
the right of the entrance and you'll reach a door. Open it and you'll find yourself in a room with a
chest.
Open it and read the scroll - it should be "Congratulations! I hereby promote you all Super
Goobers!"


10. Town descriptions and teacher locations.

1. NEW SORPIGAL.
Stable
Dragon Tower

Teachers:
Fire Magic Expert
Water Magic Expert (on an island, you'll recognize it - it has a shrine on it)
Earth Magic Expert
Air Magic Expert (Above the bank, if you don't have Jump or Fly, click on the bank's south wall for
a Fly scroll)
Body Magic Expert
Spirit Magic Expert
Mind magic Expert
Learning Expert (above the Self Guild)
Body Building expert
Meditation Expert
Identify Item Expert
Perception expert
Staff Expert (south of the town, near the sea)
Ancient Weapons Expert (The house near the Goblin Camp)
Special Buildings:
Town Hall
Abandoned temple
Shrine of Luck (active in July)
Spells:
All Elemental and Clerical spells on low level

2. Castle Ironfist.
Stable

Teachers:
Shield Expert
Leather Armor Expert
Chain Mail Expert
Plate Armor Expert
Dagger Expert (behind the tavern)
Bow Expert
Axe Expert
Sword Expert
Disarm Trap Expert
Identify Item Expert
Disarm Trap Expert
Spirit Magic Master (requires High priest)
Special Buildings:
Castle Ironfist (promotion for Paladin)
Dragoons' caverns
Shadow Guild Hideout
Temple of Baa
Snergle's Caverns
Corlagon's Estate
The Seer
Shrine of Electricity (active in September)
Spells: All Clerical spells at middle level

3. Mist.
Dragon Tower

Teachers:
Repair Item Expert
Staff Expert
Spear Expert
Leather Armor expert
Fire Magic Master
Water Magic Master
Air Magic Master (requires Archmage)
Meditation Master
Special Buildings:
Castle Newton (Sorcerer promotion)
Town Hall
Silver Helm Outpost
Shrine of Intellect (active in February)
Spells: All Elemental Spells at Middle level

4. Free Haven
2 Stables
Dragon Tower

Teachers:
Sword Expert
Dagger Expert
Merchant Expert
Fire Magic Expert
Air Magic Expert
Water Magic Expert
Earth Magic Expert
Mind Magic expert
Spirit Magic Expert
Body Magic Expert
Special Buildings:
Castle Temper (Promotion for Knight)
Dragoons' Keep
Tomb of Ethric the Mad
Temple of the Moon
Shrine of Accuracy (active in May)
Spells: All Elemental and Clerical Spells on Excellent level.

5. Silver Cove
Stable
Dragon Tower

Teachers:
Repair Item Expert
Light Magic Expert
Merchant Master
Body Magic Master
Mind Magic Expert
Earth Magic Master
Learning Master
Spear Expert
Staff Master (behind the tavern on the island)
Buildings:
Castle Fleise (promotion for Druid)
Town Hall
The Monolith
Warlord's Fortress
Circle of Stones
Silver Helm Stronghold
Shrine of Personality (Active in March)
Spells: Clerical Magic and Light Magic at low and middle level.

6. White Cap
Stable
Dragon Tower

Teachers:
Bow expert
Mace Expert
Dark magic Expert
Diplomacy Master (You'll need to Fly - it's over the Castle Stromgard)
Disarm Trap Master
Repair Item Master
Leather Armor Master
Dagger Master
Special Buildings:
Castle Stromgard (Archer promotion)
Icewind Keep
Castle Stone (Cleric Promotion)
Shrine of Endurance (active in April)
Shadow Guild
Spells: Dark Magic at Low and Middle level

7. Bootleg Bay.

Teachers:
Perception Expert
Chain Mail Expert
Special Buildings:
Temple of the Fist
Hall of the Firelord
Temple of Tsantsa
Circus (in December)
Shrine of Might (active in January)
Pedestal

8. Kriegspire
Dragon Tower
Stable

Bow Master (requires Battle Mage)
Light Magic Expert
Special Buildings:
Castle Kriegspire
Agar's Laboratory
Caves of the Dragon Riders
Superior Temple of Baa
Devil Outpost
Pedestal
Shrine of Cold (active in October)
Shrine of Fire (Active in August)

9. Darkmoor
Stable

Teachers:
Mace Expert
Chain Mail Master (Requires Crusader)
Axe Master
Spear Master
Special Buildings:
Castle Darkmoor
Snergle's Iron Mines
Cave of Longfang Witherhide
Shrine of Speed (active in June)
Pedestal
Circus (in August)

10. Castle Alamos

Teachers:
Ancient Weapons Expert
Light Magic Master (Requires Saintly reputation)
Special Buildings:
Castle Alamos
Excalibur (200+ Might to pull it out of the stone)
Shrine of Poison (Active in November)

11. Paradise Valley

Teachers:
Ancient Weapons Master
Dark Magic Master (requires Notorious reputation)
No Special Buildings

12. Sweet Water

Special Buildings:
The Hive
Pedestal

13. Sweet Water

Special Buildings:
Tomb of VARN
Shrine of the Gods (+20 to all stats permanent)
Pedestal

14. Hermit's Isle

Special Buildings:
Supreme Temple of Baa
The Fountain of Youth

15. Blackshire
Stable
Dragon Tower

Teachers:
Mace Master (requires 40+ Might)
Sword Master (requires Cavalier)
Shield Master
Dark Magic Expert

Special Buildings:
Lair of the Wolf
Temple of the Snake
Circus (in April)
Shrine of Magic (Active in December)
Spells: All spells from the Mirror path on excellent level.


11. Hints, tips, secrets and advices.

***
1. The NWC dungeon (New World Computing Dungeon):
Once in the shrine of the gods, on the eastern wall, click and you will be teleported to the NWC
Dungeon. It is
wise to cast Lloyds Beacon once you enter, because the dungeon is large and can be annoying when
trying to get
out in a hurry. Once you enter, it's pretty much straight forward of where to go to actually get to
the excitement.
It seems like a cave, but is filled with employees. None will talk to you about hints on the game or
anything,
which stinks, but whaddya expect? Throughout the dungeon there are two goblins. One, the weaker one,
is John Van
Caneghem. I think he's supposed to be a Goblin Shaman. The other goblin, Trip Hawkins, I think is
stronger, but
they aren't that hard. They both have between 20-60 health, and in the beginning it's not
necessarily a walk in
the park, but you should still survive.
There are no traps and the only ways to die are use magic on yourself or die at the goblins, so you
should have
no trouble. It is wise to cast Expert level Wizard Eye if you have it, because there are many little
treasures lying about.
Really you can just explore. A lot of times you will open a door and be in what seems a "prison
cell" with another
employee, but my guess it is like a cubicle. Throughout the cavern there is about 2, maybe 3
thousand gold (great
for beginners), a longbow, boots, light armor, rings, herbs, potion bottles, hats, the works.
But the only reason I ever visit is because in one of the rooms, there is a huge cabinet next in a
small room.
There is a small white box next to the cabinet to help you tell which one it is. Remember to always
click on the
boxes as much as the possible. Anyway, if you click on the cabinet you can get unlimited food! Just
keep on
clicking, and you can get more! Sometimes you get "bad food", which poisons you, but if you keep
using one guy,
the poison will only affect that one man. Also it is helpful to have a cleric with the Cure Poison
spell, but
it doesn't matter if you don't. I got over 500 food after clicking for a minute or two, and it's
been a year since
then and I am only down to 450! Really helpful. So, just explore and collect, and you should be well
off if you
are just starting the game. I didn't visit until I was far in the game, so I was only helped by the
food. Hope
this helps!
 If you click on the blue chest multiple times, you'll get up to 10 000 gold.
This can be used for
another bug. Go to New Sorpigal and leave ALL your money in the bank. Now return to NWC and hit the
chest again. It
should give you another 10 000 gold. You can do so till you get tired of it. 
-By Griffon Rider-

2. The "Q".
Yes, Q is surely that alien form who made the blind Jordi LaForge from Star Trek movies see clearly
again...
Q is really tough. He has 16 000 HP and casts "Finger of Death" all the time. There are several ways
to beat him:
- Wait for him to get stuck in some of the corners (thank God, they are many!) so he won't be able
to kill you (his spells
will be hitting the wall in front of you, and you'll take absolutely no damage) with his spell and
start hitting him
with your hand weapons.
- Use the "Sparks" spell, from many of the sparks will hit him.
Never remain visible for him, for soon some of your characters die by his spell "Finger of Death" -
but if you win,
you'll get the Horn of Ros and three books - Town Portal, Lloyd's Beacon and Stone to Flesh.

3. Secret beacon?
On my game this thing works, so you should try it either. After you buy the Lloyd's beacon spell,
click on one
of the empty spaces in you book while "Recalling beacon", and you'll be teleported to Castle Alamos
in the
Eel-Infested waters.

4. Entering the Shrine of the Gods.
There's a secret beacon on the roof of the Bucaneers' Lair in New Sorpigal. Face the Gild of the
Self and then turn
back. Now click on the roof before you. You should be teleported to the Shrine of the Gods. Run, run
and run inside,
click on it, take +20 to all stats for your characters and then enter the NWC Dungeon as described
by Griffon Rider.
After you're done, leave the place turn left and run forward. On the wall before you is a beacon
back to New Sorpigal.
If you're quick enough, you won't die, for the Dragons need some time to breathe fire.

5. The Experience bug.

By aiding the lord of Fire, you may click multiple times on the "Quest" button and thus get some
more experience added
to your character's totals. If you click for about 8-10 minutes, you'll get to level 183 (16777216
exp), which means
that you'll win the game really easy.
I suggest you skip this bug. Playing on level 183 is not funny as playing on level 55. If you don't
like the difficulties,
train to 183. If you like challenges, don't use this thing.



12. Spell Descriptions - by Degenerate4Life and DG Dobrev


#FIRE SPELLS
1. Torch Light - Torch light increases the radius of light surrounding your party in the dark.
Novice (N): Duration 1 hour per point of  skill
Expert (X): Brighter light
Master (M): Brightest light
2. Flame Arrow - Creates and fires a single flaming arrow.  Unlike most spells, this spell is
notoriously inaccurate and has the same chance of hitting as a regular arrow (using your
Fire skill as a bonus to hit).  The arrow does 1-8 points of damage when it hits.
N: Casting cost 2 spell points
X: Casting cost 1spell point.  Quicker recovery rate
M:Casting cost 0 spell points.  Quickest recovery rate
3. Protection from Fire	- Increases all your characters' resistance to fire by an amount equal
to your skill in
Fire Magic and lasts one hour per point of skill in Fire Magic.
N: 1 point resistance per point of skill
X: 2 points resistance per point of skill
M: 3 points resistance per point of skill
4. Fire Bolt - Launches a burst of fire at a single target.  Damage is 1-4 points of damage per
point of skill
in Fire Magic, but casting cost is low.  Firebolt is safe and effective-the "Old Reliable" of the
Sorcerer's arsenal.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
5. Haste- Reduces the time it takes to recover from casting a spell or attacking with a weapon.
Characters will be
weak for six hours after this spell wears off.
N: Duration 1 hour + 1 minute per skill point
X: Spell affects entire party	Duration
M:1 hour + 3 minutes per skill point
6. Fireball	- Another Sorcerer's favorite, fireball targets a single monster, but explodes to
hurt anyone else caught
in the blast.  If your party is too close to the blast, they will be hurt as well.  Fireball does 1-
6 points of damage
per point of skill in Fire Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
7. Ring of Fire - Generates a ring of fire around the party that damages all monsters it contacts.
Happily, Ring of
Fire is safe and will not damage your own characters.  Ring of Fire does six points of damage plus
one per point
of skill in Fire Magic.
N: Small radius of effect around party
X:Larger radius
M: Quicker recovery rate
8. Fire Blast - Launches streaks of fire in the direction the characters are facing.  The bolts only
hit monsters that
stand in their way, so a little aiming practice will help you get the most benefit from Fire Blast.
Fire Blast does
4 points of damage plus 1-3 per point of skill in Fire Magic.
N: Slow rate of recovery and 3 shots
X: Moderate rate of recovery and 5 shots
M: Quick rate of recovery and 7 shots
9. Meteor Shower - Summons flaming rocks from the sky in a large radius surrounding your chosen
target.  Try not to
be near the victim when you use this spell.  A single meteor does 8 points of damage plus 1 per
point of skill in
Fire Magic.  This spell only works outdoors.
N: Slow rate of recovery and 8 meteors
X: Moderate rate of recovery and 12 meteors
M: Quick rate of recovery and 16 meteors
10. Inferno - Inferno burns all monsters in sight when cast, excluding your characters.  Good for
cleaning out rooms
full of weak or moderate strength monsters in one or two easy castings.  Each monster takes 12
points of damage plus 1
per point of skill in Fire Magic.  This spell only works indoors.
N: Slow rate of recovery
X: Faster recovery rate
M:Fastest recovery rate
11. Incinerate - Amongst the strongest direct damage spells available, Incinerate inflicts massive
damage on a single
target.  Only the strongest of monsters can expect to survive this spell.  Damage is 15 points plus
1-15 per point of
skill in Fire Magic."
N: Slow rate of recovery
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate

#Air Spells
1. Wizard Eye - Wizard Eye causes the automap located in the upper right corner of the main gaming
screen to show the
locations of monsters and other points of interest while outdoors.  The spell lasts 1 hour per point
of skill in
Air Magic.
N: Only shows terrain and monsters
X: Shows treasure
M: Shows "points of interest"
2. Static Charge -  Hits a single monster with a jolt of static electricity.  It only does 2-6
points of damage, but
it always hits.
N: Casting cost 2 spell points
X: Casting cost 1 spell point.  Quicker recovery rate
M: Casting cost 0 spell points.  Quickest recovery rate
3. Protection from Electricity - Increases all your characters' resistance to Electricity by an
amount equal to your
skill in Air Magic.
N: 1 point resistance per point of skill
X: 2 points resistance per point of skill
M: 3 points resistance per point of skill
4. Sparks - Sparks fires small balls of lightning into the world that bounce around until they hit
something or
dissipate. It is hard to tell where they will go, so this spell is best used in a room crowded with
small monsters.
Each spark does 2 points plus 1 per point of skill in Air Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate, 3 sparks
X: Faster recovery rate, 5 sparks
M: Fastest recovery rate, 7 sparks
5. Feather Fall - Feather Fall prevents your characters from being hurt when falling more than ten
feet by slowing
the speed of the fall.  Feather Fall affects your entire party with one casting and has a duration
based on your
skill in Air Magic.
N: Duration 5 minutes per point of skill
X: Duration 10 minutes per point of skill
M: Duration 1 hour per point of skill
6. Shield - Halves damage from incoming ranged attacks (such as rocks and arrows) by slowing the
missiles down just
before they hit.
N: Duration 1 hour + 5 minutes per point of skill
X: Spell affects entire party
M: Duration 1 hour + 15 minutes per point of skill
7. Lightning Bolt - Sorcerer's Darling, Lightning Bolt discharges electricity from the caster's hand
to a single target.
It always hits and does 1-8 points of damage per point of skill in Air Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
8. Jump - Jump launches your party up in the air, landing you 60 feet from where you started.  Your
party takes no
falling damage from the jump.
N: Slow recovery rate (faster for high skill ranking)
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
9. Implosion - Implosion is a nasty spell that affects a single target by destroying the air around
it, causing a
sudden inrush from the surrounding air, a thunderclap, and 10 points plus 1-10 points of damage per
point of skill
in Air Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
10. Fly - Grants the power of flight to your characters!  This spell is very expensive and only
works outdoors, but
it is very useful.  Fly will drain one spell point every five minutes it is in use (I.E. when you
aren't touching
the ground).
N: Duration 5 minutes per point of skill
X: Duration 10 minutes per point of skill
M: Duration 1 hour per point of skill
11. Starburst - Calls stars from the heavens to smite and burn your enemies.  Expert and Master
ranking in this spell
both increase the number of stars called and speed recovery.  The damage for each star is 20 points
plus 1 per point
of skill in Air Magic, and Starburst only works outdoors.  Try not to get caught in the blast!
N: Slow recovery rate and 8 stars
X: Faster recovery rate and 12 stars
M: Fastest recovery rate and 16 stars

#Water Spells
1. Awaken - Automatically awakens all of your characters from a normal sleep and will awaken them
from a magical sleep
if they haven't had the sleep condition for too long.  The greater your skill in Water Magic, the
longer the sleep
condition could have been present before this spell becomes ineffective.
N: Works if asleep less than 3 minutes per point of skill
X: Works if asleep less than 1 hour per point of skill
M: Works if asleep less than 1 day per point of skill
2. Cold Beam - Targets a single monster with a field of extreme cold for an instant.  It only does
2-6 points of damage,
but it always hits.  The more skill you have in Water Magic, the faster you will recover from
casting Cold Beam.
Masters of Water can cast this spell without cost.
N: Casting cost 2 spell points
X: Casting cost 1spell point.  Quicker recovery rate
M: Casting cost 0 spell points.  Quickest recovery rate
3. Protection from Cold - Increases all your characters' resistance to Cold by an amount equal to
your skill in Water
Magic.  This spell lasts for one hour per point of skill in Water Magic.
N: 1 point resistance per point of skill
X: 2 points resistance per point of skill
M: 3 points resistance per point of skill
4. Poison Spray - Sprays poison at monsters directly in front of your characters.  Damage is low,
but few monsters
have resistance to poison, so it usually works.  Each shot does 2 points of damage plus 1-2 per
point of skill in
Water Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate and 1 shot
X: Faster recovery rate and 3 shots
M: Fastest recovery rate and 5 shots
5. Water Walk - Only useful outdoors, Water Walk lets your characters walk along the surface of
water without sinking.
This spell can be very useful, but constantly drains one spell point every 20 minutes while in
contact with water.
N: Duration 5 minutes per point of skill
X: Duration 10 minutes per point of skill
M: Duration 1 hour per point of skill
6. Ice Bolt - Fires a single bolt of ice at a single target.  It always hits and does 1-7 points of
damage per point
of skill in Water Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
7. Enchant Item - Gives a chance to imbue a normal item with magical powers.  The chance of success
is 10% per point
of skill in Water Magic.  Experts manage better enchantments, and only masters can enchant weapons.
N: Weak enchantments only
X: Stronger enchantments
M: Allows enchantment of weapons
8. Acid Burst - Acid burst squirts a jet of extremely caustic acid at a single victim.  It always
hits and does 9 points
of damage plus 1-9 per point of skill.  The big advantage of this spell is few monsters are
resistant to acid.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
9. Town Portal - Town Portal teleports the party to the central fountain of the last town visited.
Town Portal has a 10%
chance per point of Water Magic skill of working when cast.
N: Outdoors only
X: Indoors OK
M: Works anywhere and gives choice of destination
10. Ice Blast - Fires a ball of ice in the direction the caster is facing.  The ball will shatter
when it hits something,
launching 7 shards of ice in all directions except the caster's.  The shards will ricochet until
they strike a creature
or melt.  Each shard does 12 points of damage plus 1-2 per point of skill in Water Magic.
N: Slow rate of recovery
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
11. Lloyd's Beacon - Lloyd's Beacon lets you place a marker at a location you want to teleport back
to in the future.
Just how far in the future depends on your skill and ranking in Water Magic.  Cast this spell
whenever you wish to
either place a marker or return to one.
N: 1 Beacon, decays in 1 hour per point of skill
X: 3 Beacons, decays in 1 day per point of skill
M: 5 Beacons, decays in 1 week per point of skill

#Earth Spells
1. Stun - Slaps a monster with magical force, forcing it to recover from the stun spell before it
can do anything else.
Stun also knocks monsters back a little, giving you a chance to get away while the getting is good.
The greater your
skill in Earth Magic, the greater the effect of the spell.
N: Normal effect
X: Stronger effect
M: Strongest effect
2. Magic Arrow - Creates and fires a single magical arrow.  Unlike most spells, this spell is
inaccurate and has the
same chance of hitting as a regular arrow (using your Earth Magic skill as a bonus to hit).  Also
unlike most spells,
Magic Arrow is free to cast when you become a Master of Earth.  The arrow does 3-8 points of damage.
N: Casting cost 2 spell points
X: Casting cost 1 spell point.  Quicker recovery rate
M: Casting cost 0 spell points.  Quickest recovery rate
3. Protection from Magic - Increases all your characters' resistance to magic by an amount equal to
your skill in Earth
Magic.
N: 1 point resistance per point of skill
X: 2 points resistance per point of skill
M: 3 points resistance per point of skill
4. Deadly Swarm - Summons a swarm of biting, stinging insects to bedevil a single target.  The swarm
only does 5 points
of damage plus 1-3 per point of skill in Earth Magic, but it never misses and the damage is physical,
making resistance
to this spell unlikely.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
5. Stone Skin - Increases the armor class of a character by 5 + 1 point per point of skill in Earth
Magic.
N: Duration 1 hour + 5 minutes per point of skill
X: Spell affects entire party
M: Duration 1 hour + 15 minutes per point of skill
6. Blades - Fires a rotating, razor-thin metal blade at a single monster.  This spell can miss, and
damage and chance
to hit rely heavily on Earth Magic skill.  The blade does 1-5 points of damage per point of skill in
Earth Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
7. Stone to Flesh - Removes the stoned condition from a character if you cast this spell in time.
The greater the s
kill and rank in Earth Magic the longer the condition could have been present before the "point of
no return" is
reached.  After that, the only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit
a temple.
N: Works if stoned less than 3 minutes per point of skill
X: Works if stoned less than 1 hour per point of skill
M: Works if stoned less than 1 day per point of skill
8. Rock Blast - Releases a magical stone into the world that will explode when it comes into contact
with a creature
or enough time passes.  The rock will bounce and roll until it finds a resting spot, so be careful
not to be caught i
n the blast.  The explosion causes 1-8 points of damage per point of skill in Earth Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
9. Turn to Stone - Temporarily turns a target to stone.  These stone statues are invulnerable to any
sort of attack.
N: Duration 5 minutes per point of skill
X: Duration 10 minutes per point of skill
M: Duration 20 minutes per point of skill
10. Death Blossom - Fires a magical stone far into the air that creates a very large and powerful
explosion when
it lands.  The damage is 20 points plus 1 per point of skill in Earth Magic.  This spell can only be
used outdoors.
N: Moderate rate of recovery
X: Faster recovery, larger radius of effect
M: Fastest recovery, largest radius of effect
11. Mass Distortion - Increases the weight of a single target enormously for an instant, causing
internal damage equal
to 25% of the monster's hit points plus another 2% per point of skill in Earth Magic.  The bigger
they are, the harder
they fall.
N: Slow rate of recovery
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate

#Spirit Spells
1. Spirit Arrow - Fires an ectoplasmic bolt of negative spiritual energy at a single target.  Spirit
arrow can miss,
but a higher skill in Spirit Magic increases your chances of hitting.  The arrow causes 1-6 points
of damage.
N: Moderate recovery
X: Faster recovery
M: Casting cost 0.
2. Bless - Blessed characters have an increased chance to hit monsters in hand to hand combat and
with missiles.
A character's bonus to hit is increased by 5 + 1 per point of skill in Spirit Magic.
N: Duration 1 hour + 5 minutes per point of skill
X: Spell affects entire party
M: Duration 1 hour + 15 minutes per point of skill
3. Healing Touch - heals a single character of 3-7 hit points.  Skill increases the recovery rate of
this spell.
N: Heals 3-7 points of damage
X: Heals 5-9 points of damage
M: Heals 7-11 points of damage
4. Lucky Day - Temporarily increases a single character's Luck statistic by 10 points plus 2 per
point of skill
in Spirit Magic.
N: Increases luck by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill
X: Increases luck by 10 points plus 3 per point of skill
M: Spell affects entire party
5. Remove Curse - Removes the cursed condition from a character if you cast this spell in time.  The
greater the
skill and rank in Spirit Magic the longer the condition could have been present before the "point of
no return"
is reached.  After that, the only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to
visit a temple.
N: Works if cursed less than 3 minutes per point of skill
X: Works if cursed less than 1 hour per point of skill
M: Works if cursed less than 1 day per point of skill
6. Guardian Angel - Sets up a compact with the Higher Powers to resurrect your characters  and
return them to the last
temple you visited upon their deaths.  The price for this service is half of the gold your
characters have with them
at the time of death.  Guardian Angel lasts for 1 hour per point of skill in Spirit Magic.
N: Characters are restored to life with 1 hit point each.
X: Characters are restored to life with half their hit points
M: Characters are restored to life with all their hit points
7. Heroism - Heroism increases the damage a character does on a successful attack by 5 + 1 point per
point of skill
in Spirit Magic.
N: Duration 1 hour + 5 minutes per point of skill
X: Spell affects entire party
M: Duration 1 hour + 15 minutes per point of skill
8. Turn Undead - Forces all visible undead monsters to flee until the duration of Turn Undead runs
out.  This spell
lasts for 3 minutes plus 3 minutes per point of skill in Spirit Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
9. Raise Dead - Raises a character from the dead if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the
skill and rank in
Spirit Magic the longer the character could have been dead before the "point of no return" is
reached.  After that,
the only way to raise the character short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple.  Casting this
spell will l
eave your character in the weak condition.
N: Works if dead less than 3 minutes per point of skill
X: Works if dead less than 1 hour per point of skill
M: Works if dead less than 1 day per point of skill
10. Shared Life - Shared Life combines the life force of your characters and redistributes it
amongst them as evenly
as possible.  All current hit points are totaled and 1 extra point per point of skill in Spirit
Magic is added to
this total.  Then the points are distributed back to the characters, with no individual character
being allowed to
have more points than his maximum total hit points.
N: Adds 1 hit point per point of skill to the pool
X: Adds 2 hit points per point of skill to the pool
M: Adds 3 hit points per point of skill to the pool
11. Resurrection - Resurrects an eradicated (body destroyed) character if you cast this spell in
time.  The greater the
skill and rank in Spirit Magic the longer the condition could have been present before the "point of
no return" is
reached.  After that, the only way to resurrect the character is to visit a temple. Casting this
spell will leave your
character in the weak condition.
N: Works if eradicated less than 3 minutes per point of skill
X: Works if eradicated less than 1 hour per point of skill
M: Works if eradicated less than 1 day per point of skill

#Mind Spells
1. Meditation - Temporarily increases a single character's Intellect and Personality statistics by
10 points plus 2 per
point of skill in Mind Magic.
N: Increases Intellect and Personality by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill
X: Increases Intellect and Personality by 10 points plus 3 per point of skill
M: Spell affects entire party
2. Remove Fear - Removes the afraid condition from a character if you cast this spell in time.  The
greater the skill
and rank in Mind Magic the longer the condition could have been present before the "point of no
return" is reached.
After that, the only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple.
N: Works if afraid less than 3 minutes per point of skill
X: Works if afraid less than 1 hour per point of skill
M: Works if afraid less than 1 day per point of skill
3. Mind Blast - Fires a bolt of mental force damaging to a single targets' nervous system.  Mind
Blast does 5 points of
damage plus 1-2 per point of skill in Mind Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X:Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
4. Precision - Temporarily increases a single character's Accuracy statistic by 10 points plus 2 per
point of skill
in Mind Magic.
N: Increases Accuracy by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill
X: Increases Accuracy by 10 points plus 3 per point of skill
M: Spell affects entire party
5. Cure Paralysis - Cures paralysis if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill and rank
in Mind Magic
the longer the character could have been paralyzed before the ""point of no return"" is reached.
After that, the
only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple.
N: Works if paralyzed less than 3 minutes per point of skill
X: Works if paralyzed less than 1 hour per point of skill
M: Works if paralyzed less than 1 day per point of skill
6. Charm - Calms a single targeted creature and removes any hostile feelings it has towards your
characters.  If
this creature takes any damage, it will immediately become hostile again.
N: Duration 3 minutes per point of skill
X: Duration 6 minutes per point of skill
M: Duration 12 minutes per point of skill
7. Mass Fear - All creatures in the caster's sight fear the caster and flee.  If a creature takes
damage while under
the influence of this spell, the spell will be broken.  Mass Fear will not work on Undead creatures.
The duration of
Mass Fear is 3 minutes per point of skill in Mind Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
8. Feeblemind - Feeblemind removes the ability of a target to cast spells until this spell wears out.
The duration of
this spell is 5 minutes per point of skill in Mind Magic
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
9. Cure Insanity - Cures insanity if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill and rank in
Mind Magic the
longer the character could have been insane before the "point of no return" is reached.  After that,
the only way
to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple.
N: Works if insane less than 3 minutes per point of skill
X: Works if insane less than 1 hour per point of skill
M: Works if insane less than 1 day per point of skill
10. Psychic Shock - Similar to Mind Blast, Psychic Shock targets a single creature with mind
damaging magic, only to
a much greater effect.  Psychic Shock does 12 points of damage plus 1-12 per point of skill in Mind
Magic.
N: Slow rate of recovery
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
11. Telekinesis - Telekinesis lets you manipulate an object at a distance at a strength equal to
your character's
skill in Mind Magic.  Switches can be thrown, objects picked up, and doors opened with this spell,
all from a nice
safe distance from those nasty traps.
N: Strength of effect is 1 point per point of skill
X: Strength of effect is 2 points per point of skill
M: Strength of effect is 3 points per point of skill

Body Spells
1. Cure Weakness - Cures the weak condition from a character if you cast this spell in time.  The
greater the skill
and rank in Body Magic the longer the character could have been weak before the "point of no return"
is reached.
After that, the only way to cure the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple.
N: Works if weak less than 3 minutes per point of skill
X: Works if weak less than 1 hour per point of skill
M: Works if weak less than 1 day per point of skill
2. First Aid - Cures 5 hit points on a single target when cast.  Recovery is reduced by an amount
equal to the caster's
skill in Body Magic.
N: Cures 5 hit points
X: Cures 7 hit points
M: Cures 10 hit points
3. Protection from Poison - increases all your characters' resistance to poison by an amount equal
to your skill in
Body Magic.
N: 1 point resistance per point of skill
X: 2 points resistance per point of skill
M: 3 points resistance per point of skill
4. Harm - Directly inflicts magical damage upon a single creature.  Harm does 8 points of damage
plus 1-2 per point
of skill in Body Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
E: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
5. Cure Wounds - Cures hit points on a single target when cast.  The number cured is equal to five
plus 2 per point
of skill in Body Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
6. Cure Poison - Cures poison in a character if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill
and rank in
Body Magic the longer the character could have been poisoned before the "point of no return" is
reached.  After that,
the only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple.
N: Works if poisoned less than 3 minutes per point of skill
X: Works if poisoned less than 1 hour per point of skill
M: Works if poisoned less than 1 day per point of skill
7. Speed - Temporarily increases a single character's Speed statistic by 10 points plus 2 per point
of skill in
Body Magic.
N: Increases Speed by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill
X: Increases Speed by 10 points plus 3 per point of skill
M: Spell affects entire party
8. Cure Disease - Cures disease in a character if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the
skill and rank in
Body Magic the longer the character could have been diseased before the "point of no return" is
reached.  After that,
the only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple.
N: Works if diseased less than 3 minutes per point of skill
X: Works if diseased less than 1 hour per point of skill
M: Works if diseased less than 1 day per point of skill
9. Power - Temporarily increases a single character's Might and Endurance statistics by 10 points
plus 2 per point
of skill in Body Magic.
N: Increases Might and Endurance by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill
X: Increases Might and Endurance by 10 points plus 3 per point of skill
M: Spell affects entire party
10. Flying Fist - Flying Fist throws a heavy magical force at a single opponent that does 30 points
of damage plus
1-5 per point of skill in Body Magic.
N: Slow rate of recovery
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
11. Power Cure - Cures hit points of all characters in your party at once.  The number cured is
equal to 10 plus 2
per point of skill in Body Magic.
N: Slow rate of recovery
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate

#Light Spells
1. Create Food - Creates food for all of your characters if you have less real food than would be
created by this spell.
N: Creates 1 day + 1 day per 10 points skill
X: Creates 1 day + 2 days per 10 points skill
M: Creates 1 day + 3 days per 10 points skill
2. Golden Touch - Converts a single item you select in your inventory into gold equal to 40% of the
item's actual value.
There is a 10% chance per point of skill in Light Magic that this spell will succeed.  If the spell
fails, the item is
broken.
N: Converts item to 40% gold value
X: Converts item to 60% gold value
M: Converts item to 80% gold value
3. Dispel Magic - Removes all spells on all creatures in the caster's sight, both helpful and
harmful.  Recovery is
reduced by an amount equal to skill in Light Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
4. Slow - Halves the walking speed and doubles the recovery rate of a single monster.  Slow makes
sure a monster will
attack you half as often, and will have a harder time catching up to you if you choose to run.  The
duration of this
spell is 3 minutes per point of skill in Light Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
5. Destroy Undead - Calls upon the power of Heaven to undo the evil magic that extends the lives of
the Undead, inflicting
16 points of damage plus 1-16 per point of skill in Light Magic upon a single, unlucky target.  This
spell only works on
the Undead.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
6. Day of the Gods - Simultaneously casts Power, Meditation, Speed, Lucky Day, Precision, and GA on
all your characters
for one easy payment.   Day of the Gods is cast at your skill in Light Magic.
N: All spells cast at twice skill in Light Magic
X: All spells cast at three times skill
M: All spells cast at four times skill
7. Prismatic Light - Inflicts 25 points of damage plus 1 per point of skill in Light Magic on all
creatures in sight.
This spell can only be cast indoors.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
8. Hour of Power - Simultaneously casts Haste, Heroism, Shield, Stone Skin, and Bless on all your
characters at your
skill in Light Magic.
N: All spells cast at twice skill in Light Magic
X: All spells cast at three times skill
M: All spells cast at four times skill
9. Paralyze - Paralyze temporarily prevents a monster from moving or attacking for the (short)
duration of this spell,
which is 3 minutes per point of skill in Light Magic.  You are free to attack your helpless target
'til your heart's
content--paralyzed monsters cannot retaliate.
N: Slow recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
10. Sun Ray - Sun Ray is the second most devastating spell in Enroth, concentrating the light of the
sun on one
unfortunate creature.  Since Sun Ray must focus the light of the sun, it can only work outdoors and
during the day.
Sun Ray does 20 points of damage plus 1-20 per point of skill in Light Magic.
N: Very slow recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
11. Divine Intervention - Once per day during the rising or setting of the sun, you may call upon
the heavens to heal
your characters of all damage, restore your spell points, and remove all adverse conditions.  The
gods exact a price,
however, aging the caster 10 years for each Divine Intervention.  Recovery from this spell is
shortend with skill in
Light Magic.
N: Only works once per day
X: Only works twice per day
M:Only works three times per day

#Dark Spells
1. Reanimate - Reanimate allows you to raise a lifeless creature from the dead (sort of).  The spell
does not make them
grateful or peaceful in any way, but you can always kill them again, if you want.
N: Creature gets 10 hit points per skill point (up to creature's maximum)
X: Creature gets 20 hit points per skill point
M: Creature gets 30 hit points per skill point
2. Toxic Cloud - A poisonous cloud of noxious gases is formed in front of the caster and moves
slowly away from your
characters.  The cloud does 25 points of damage plus 1-10 per point of skill in Dark Magic and lasts
until something
runs into it.
N: Moderate recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
3. Mass Curse - Inflicts the cursed condition on all monsters in the sight of the caster.
N: Duration 2 minutes per point of skill
X: Duration 3 minutes per point of skill
M: Duration 4 minutes per point of skill
4. Shrapmetal - Fires a blast of hot, jagged metal in front of the caster, striking any creature
that gets in the way.
Each piece inflicts 6 points of damage plus 1-6 per point of skill in Dark Magic.
N: Moderate recovery rate and 3 fragments
X: Faster recovery rate and 5 fragments
M: Fastest recovery rate and 7 fragments
5. Shrinking Ray - Shrinks even the grandest of monsters to more manageable sizes. Duration of this
spell is 5 minutes
per point of skill in Dark Magic.  A shrunken monster deals one half, one third, or one quarter its
normal damage while
shrunk.
N: Reduces monster size to one half normal
X: Reduces monster size to one third normal
M: Reduces monster size to one fourth normal
6. Day of Protection - Simultaneously casts Protection from Fire, Electricity, Cold, Poison, and
Magic, plus Feather Fall
and Wizard Eye on all your characters at your skill in Dark Magic.
N: All spells cast at twice skill in Dark Magic
X: All spells cast at three times skill
M: All spells cast at four times skill
7. Finger of Death - Attempts to immediately slay a single creature by stripping its soul from its
body.  Finger of Death
has a 3% chance per skill point in Dark Magic of working, with Experts and Masters getting 4 and 5%
chances respectively.
N: 3% chance of success per point of skill in Dark Magic
X: 4% chance of success per point of skill in Dark Magic
M: 5% chance of success per point of skill in Dark Magic
8. Moon Ray - A powerful spell of Darkness, Moon Ray heals your characters and damages all monsters
in sight.  It doesn't
do a lot of damage or cure conditions, but it is the only spell that harms all monsters in sight and
works outside.  Moon
Ray is restricted to working outdoors and at night.  All monsters take 1-4 points of damage per
point of skill in Dark
Magic, and all characters heal 1-4 points of damage per point of skill.
N: Slow recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
9. Dragon Breath - Dragon Breath empowers the caster to exhale a cloud of toxic vapors that target a
single monster and
damage all creatures nearby.  This spell is the most powerful damage spell in the lands, doing 1-25
points of damage per
point of skill in Dark Magic.
N: Slow recovery rate
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate
10. Armageddon - This spell is the town killer.  It can only be cast once per day by Apprentices to
Dark Magic,  and only
outdoors at that.  Armageddon inflicts 50 points of damage plus 1 point of damage for every point of
Dark skill your
character has to every creature on the map, including all your characters.
N: Can only be cast once per day
X: Can only be cast twice per day
M: Can only be cast three times per day
11. Dark Containment - This spell attempts to trap the force of darkness into its victims, hence the
name Dark
Containment.  The target of the spell will suffer from random effects- though certain creatures are
immune to this
spell.
N: Slow rate of recovery
X: Faster recovery rate
M: Fastest recovery rate


13. Special thanks:

1. To Degenerate4Life, who kindly gave the location of MM7View and helped me with this FAQ. You'll
see his work marked
with:
***
(text by Degenerate4Life)
- By Degenerate4Life -
2. To GriffonRider, who gave me the NWC dungeon description. His passion to help us was really
admirable!
3. To Sashanan, who was so kind to give me a brief outline how to post an FAQ. Whithout the help of
this wonderful
person you wouldn't be reading this now.

14. Are you planning to make another version?

Yes, I do. However, it will be after my exams. I'm studying in a University, so my exams may last
from the beginning
of January 2002 till the end of February 2002. After my exams are finished, I'll update this FAQ.

Goodbye now, and thank you for reading this FAQ.


Copyright 2001, by DG Dobrev. All rights reserved.
@]