[@
           ╓─────────────────────────────────────────────────╖
           ║  Full Documentation for Lemmings ][ The Tribes  ║
           ║       A Visitor's Guide to Lemming Island       ║
           ╙─────────────────────────────────────────────────╜


A Special greeting and a note of introduction to those lucky owners who
have played any of the previous lemmings games: Lemmings and Oh No! More
Lemmings.

Here are some important differences:

1. In Lemmings 2 The Tribes, you start the first level of each tribe
with 60 Lemmings and then move on with the survivors to subsequent
levels. The number of Lemmings that you have to save in higher levels is
determined by the number that you have brought forward from the previous
level.

2. Play levels are much larger. You can scroll vertically, horizontally
and diagonally. Lot's more area to cover.

3. The number of Lemmings skills available may vary by level.

4. Lemmings may be a bit more resilient with respect to falling
distances.


You'll figure out the rest! Save those Lemmings!


READ THIS FIRST!

First of all, well done for choosing Lemming Island as your destination
- it's a place and experience you'll never forget!

For those of you who are visiting the Island for the first time, we
thought a guided tour of the sights and sounds might be helpful in
familiarising you with the game. So read on, watch your screens and get
ready to Lem it!

After carefully following all the installation instructions, you're on
your way!


WHERE AM I?

You'll now find yourself in the beautiful village of the Highland Tribe.
But before you go off on your adventures, you have 8 choices to take a
look at! First of all, SAVE & LOAD allow you to save a game and reload
it again later. EXIT allows you to quit the game - so you'll probably
never need to use that option! And PREFS lets you alter some of the game
options such as music, controls and so on.

To get to know the Lemmings' story in their own words, click LEFT MOUSE
BUTTON ON INTRO and meet the little guys yourself. (You've heard it from
us, now hear it from them!)

And so, you're now familiar with your mission: - to save the Tribes from
the Darkness. You're now ready to meet your little friends...


PRACTICE, PRACTICE, PRACTICE!

This is a fantastic area of the game and the only place in the game
where you will have access to all the many skills available to the
Lemmings in one place. Play with all the skills, YOU WILL HAVE AN
INCREDIBLE AMOUNT OF FUN DOING THIS! Select PRACTICE from the menu and
you'll see a screen full of Lemmings Icons: 60 in all. Each depicts one
of the many skills that the Lemmings can perform. At each level of the
game you'll be assigned certain skills that you can use in that level.
Here, in the Practice area you can play with all of them. You can now
choose up to 8 Lemming skills to practice with at any one time. Move
your mouse pointer (cursor) around the screen and you will see the skill
descriptions come up at the bottom of the screen. When you're ready to
select a skill you simply move your mouse pointer over the appropriate
Lemming and click. Some of the skills may require extraordinary effort
on the part of the Lemmings, so they might not all be available. You'll
know that's the case when the words 'Insufficient Memory' appear
towards the bottom of the screen. You'll be able to practice in only
four of the twelve lands in the practice area. Bear that in mind when
you select your skills - choose skills appropriate for that part of the
Island: Ice Skaters in Egypt don't make much sense.


A POLARIZING EXPERIENCE!

Let's go visit the Polar Lemmings. But let's choose some skills to work
with first. Click on the Skater (upper right hand corner) Skier (third
row to the right) Thrower (second row, towards the middle) and Jumper
(top row tot he left), jumping is useful anywhere. Lets also select the
Swimmer (second row, second from the left) Flame-thrower (fourth row,
towards the middle) - he's sure to warm everything up. And finally, see
if you can find the Platformer and Bomber.

The skills are chosen, now move the pointer to the 'TRY THESE SKILLS!'
icon and click on it. Then click on the Polar Tribe.

When you enter the screen, you'll see the Lemmings falling from the trap
door. Click on the PAWS icon button right of the screen to pause the
game so you can explore this play level. Move your cursor to the left
and the right edges of the screen, watching the screen scroll. This
screen only scrolls left and right, but others will scroll up, down,
left, right and diagonally!

At the bottom of the screen, you'll notice the skill icons you just
selected. You'll also see a number next to each icon. These numbers
represent the number of times that skill may be used on that play level.
Each time a Lemming is given that skill, the number will decrease by
one.

Just above the icons is the long information panel. Since the game is
now paused, the panel reads 'pause'. The number to the right tells you
how many Lemmings there are still available on this level and the icon
to the right of that (which represents an exit) tells you how many
Lemmings you've saved. The final icon tells how much time is left to
complete the level.

The four icons to the right are PAWS (Pause), FAN (useful for blowing
items and Lemmings around), NUKE (to kiss goodbye to the level) and a
FAST-FORWARD mode (for hurrying Lemmings along).


A REMINDER

Let's play with the Lemmings - but remember, on the practice level there
is no actual exit, we're only getting used to the skills. On the real
levels, we're trying to get them to the exit.


HERE THEY COME!

Bring the trap door back into view and hit PAWS (Pause) once more. Click
on the skier skill at the bottom of the screen. Now position the cursor
over a Lemming at the top of the hill and click again when the Lemming
is exactly in the middle of the target. Your Lemming will get out his
skis and set off down the hill! He can now leap across crevasses and
race across the stretches of open snow.

Watch out when a Lemming reaches ice because he can't keep his feet.
Only Skaters will be able to cross the slippery surface (they move with
such grace, don't they?)- unless the Platformer can cover it up that is!


Lem et Machina!

You'll also notice a cannon. Move the cannon to the left by clicking on
the arrows and leave the rest to the Lemmings! They know how to use all
the equipment when they get to it! Take a look at the strange machines
with the dangling chains. Click on the fan, position it over the
rotating cups at the top and hold the left mouse button down, the longer
you hold it the faster the top spins and the chain swings even higher.
Lemmings can use the chains to swing over obstacles. To get a Lemming on
to the chain make him a Jumper and click on him when the chain swings
near. A Lemming clinging to the bottom of the chain can be swung off by
clicking on the glowing spot underneath the cups. Geronimo!

You'll come across plenty of marvellous and yes, even diabolical,
mechanical machines on your travels - such as the one below the furthest
chain - it's up to you to discover what they're for!


PLAYING THE GAME

If you've finished on the practice screens and taken a look at all the
skills, it's time to enter the game for real. So nuke the level to
return to the main menu. Now that we're back in the center of Lemming
village, let's begin our journey. Click on MAP and you'll see all of
Lemmings island. As you move your cursor around the island, you'll see
the names of the different lands come up in the box at the bottom of the
screen. A little sunshine would be nice, so let's go to the beach! Click
on the Beach Tribe's land and LET'S GO...


Like, What's Happening Dude?

The opening screen shows just what skills are available (and how many of
each skill) plus a map of the level that's to come. In the upper
right-hand corner, you'll see the mame of the tribe, the cool beach lem,
and you'll see 6 large lemming figures dancing above the beach title.
Each of the dancing lemmings represents ten lemmings that you'll have
available to solve this level. So that the total number of lemmings that
you have available for this level is 60. As you solve this level, you
should try to save as many lemmings as you possibly can. Because, for
subsequent levels, you will only have the number of lemmings you carry
forward from the previous level. Below the Beach label, you'll see the
actual diagram of the level. The two X-ed out arrows on either side mean
that this is the first level of this tribe. You'll find that in
subsequent levels, these arrows will allow you to go forward to new
levels or back to re-play levels.

And of course, the final part of the screen, shows the clever title of
the screen, and how much time you have available to solve the level.
Click on the PLAY LEVEL icon; and, as our green-haired friends say,
"Let's go!"


Beach Blanket Lemming

Click on the mouse button and we enter the game screen. Click on PAWS
(Pause) right away to stop the game and take a look around. The Skills
and the number of each that you have available are shown in the icons
that you have at the bottom of the screen. Looks like you've got (from
left to right) a Jumper, a Bomber, a Flame-thrower, SUPERLEM, a Stomper,
a Runner, a Roper, and a Filler. You can check back on your reference
card, if you're unsure as to what those skills do. A quick review of the
screen will show the status bar showing that you are in Pause mode, how
many lemmings are still alive, how many you've saved and that you have
somewhat less than 9 minutes to save as many lemmings as you can.


Let's get Those Guys Organized!
Remember, you have to get as many as you can safely to the exit!

You'll see four (yes four!) trap doors. The exit is the sandcastle at
the bottom left. Unpause (click on the PAWS again) the game when you're
ready and watch where the Lemmings go - each group is trapped quickly so
they can't get into much trouble.

Move down to the group of Lemmings to the left of the sand castle exit.
See how they're stopped from making the exit by that palm tree. What
they need to do is blast it out of the way.

Click on the Flame-thrower icon. Now position the pointer just to the
left of the tree. Wait for a Lemming to walk into the pointer from the
left and click the button. WOOSH. The way is now clear and the Lemmings
will trot along to the Sand castle.

Take a look at the group above the sand castle next. What they need to
do is to bash their way down throught the floor and onto that little
ledge on its own below - but make sure you stomp slightly to the right
of where the Lemmings fall or they'll fall too far and splat on the
floor! Now, select a Stomper from the skills panel and click the pointer
on the ground above the ledge. When a Lemming walks into the target,
turn that Lemming into a Stomper and he'll jump his way down to the
ledge - leaving the way free for all his buddies to follow. And don't
worry - even if they walk in the wrong direction, they can't get far
before they turn around.

The next group is right at the top where quite a few of them are trapped
in a hole. Choose the Filler skill and the Lemming will fill the hole
with sand freeing all the trapped Lemmings to continue on their way to
the edge of the ledge and down.

Last but not least, move to the bottom right of the screen to see the
final group of stray Lemmings pacing to and fro between a can of
Lemmingade and a nicely striped changing tent. Notice how their way tot
he left is blocked by the can and then the bucket.


Choices, Choices!

There are two options here:
1. To blast a way with the flame-thrower through the objects, or:
2. To scale them using the roper. Method 2 is a more peaceful and gentle
method so well use that. Besides, we've blasted with the flame-thrower
before!

Select Roper from the skills panel and when a Lemming is a short
distance from the can, give him the roper skill. Once changed the cursor
becomes the aiming device for the grappling hook attached to the rope,
move the cursot to the top of the can and click. The Roper lemming will
fire his tope tot he top of the can and the other Lemmings will climb
the rope and scale the can. Make sure you leave enough room for the
Lemmings to climb the rope without bashing their heads on the ground
otherwise they won't climb the rope. Stay with the roper skill now and
make a rope bridge across to the top of the bucket. Once accomplished,
the Lemmings will march up and cover both obstacles and onwards to the
sand castle exit. If you fall between the can and bucket, don't worry
because the Lemmings will find the bucket no problem at all! OK, all
done.


THE TALISMAN SCREEN

That's level one completed! And now, you've hopefully svaed all 60
Lemmings. Notice how you didn't need to use all the skills - you'll find
this the case on many of the screens. The end of level screen will
congratulate you now and you'll take your place at the top of the
rostrum. This shows that you're on course for a Gold Talisman. If you
manage to complete all 10 levels without losing a Lemming, that tribe
has managed to earn a piece of the Gold Talisman. Do that with each and
every tribe, and you'll receive the completed Gold Talisman. Not many
people will manage that!!!

If you lose one Lemming or a small number, you'll take a piece of Silver
Talisman and if you lose too many, you'll take a Bronze Talisman.

Below the rostrum are three selections. NEXT LEVEL allows you to
continue onto the next level with that tribe. REPLAY LEVEL gives you the
chance to return to the beginning of the last level to, hopefully, learn
from your mistakes and earn a better piece of the Talisman. MENU returns
you to the main menu.


BACK TO LEMMING VILLAGE

At the main menu, you can save your game if you wish. You could also
select the MAP option. This allows you to take a look at the map of the
entire Island. You can also choose to visit a different tribe by moving
the mouse pointer over the portion of the map belonging to the tribe and
clicking. This will whisk you away to another part of the Island and
another tribe's puzzling problems. Remember, you can be working with any
of the 12 tribes as you move along in the game. If you run into
obstacles or levels that you have trouble solving, you can work with
another, and perhaps learn a new technique or behavior of the lemmings
which will help you cope with previous obstacles that seemed
insurmountable!


YOU'RE ON YOUR WAY!

And that's it. All you've to do now is to get every Lemming safely
across 120 screens and that's it. That's all you have to do!!! ALL you
have to do???

Now sit back and enjoy the continuing tale of the Lemmings in:

                       LEMMINGS 2 THE TRIBES...
@]