!! История

!!! Допотопная эра

Хайборийской эре предшествовала допотопная Турийская эра, о которой известно из хроник немедийских летописцев. Цивилизованные государства — Валузия, Верулия, Коммория, Грондар, Туле, Камелия — занимали лишь небольшую часть суши. Наиболее влиятельными в этот период были монархи Валузии и Коммории. Валузия была самым западным, а Грондар — самым восточным государством. Обитатели Грондара были менее цивилизованы, чем другие. Юг и восточное побережье материка населяли таинственные расы. Варварами этой эпохи были пикты, атланты и лемурийцы. На востоке Турийского континента простиралась бесконечная пустыня. Южные побережья населяли таинственные дочеловеческие цивилизации. Турийская культура клонилась к упадку. После многочисленных войн между Валузией и Комморией континент покорили атланты.

Потом Катастрофа опустошила землю. Ушли на дно Лемурия и Атлантида; острова пиктов поднялись и стали горными вершинами нового материка. Целые народы исчезли с лица земли.

!!! После Катастрофы

Колония пиктов на южной границе Валузии уцелела. Атланты переселились на континент, покинув затонувшую родину. После продолжительных и жестоких войн их цивилизация была уничтожена варварским племенем пиктов, которые остановились в развитии. Лемурийцы спаслись на восточном побережье Туранского континента, где попали под иго загадочного древнего народа.

Следующая, так называемая Малая Катастрофа ещё больше преобразила материк. Великие озёра слились в одно внутреннее море, отделившее Восток от Запада. Через тысячу лет после Малой Катастрофы Запад представлял собой страну джунглей, населённую одичавшими потомками атлантов и пиктов.

На Востоке лемурийцы подняли восстание, перебили своих угнетателей и живут среди развалин загадочной цивилизации. Остатки их поработителей двинулись на Запад и установили там свою власть. Так возникло государство, именуемое Стигия. На её восточных рубежах живут кочевники-шемиты.

!!! Возвышение хайборийской цивилизации

Возрастает могущество народов Севера, называющих себя хайборийцами. Хайборийцы заселили весь север и завоёвывают земли к югу и западу. Одно из северных племён овладело искусством возводить каменные постройки и превратилось в первую хайборийскую державу — варварское королевство Гиперборея. Это дало толчок развитию других племён. В следующее тысячелетия хайборийцы разгромили империю Ахерон и подчинили себе весь Запад.

Пять веков спустя границы государств уже чётко определены. В западной части мира преобладают хайборийские державы — Аквилония, Немедия, Бритуния, Гиперборея, Коф, Офир, Аргос, Коринфия и Пограничное Королевство. К востоку от них лежит Замора, к западу — Зингара. Далеко на юге шемиты сбросили стигийское ярмо и отбросили угнетателей за реку Стикс. Тут на карте появляются гирканцы — потомки лемурийцев. На южном побережье моря Вилайет они основали королевство Туран.

!!! Падение хайборийской цивилизации

Через пятьсот лет после правления Конана Великого в Аквилонии хайборийская цивилизация погибла. Произошло это после того, как Арус, немедийский священник, прибыл миссионером в дебри пиктов, он стал советником вождя Горма, помогая тому развивать его племя по пути цивилизации. Пикты овладели изготовлением оружия из стали и вскоре двинулись войной на цивилизованные королевства, погружённые в междоусобицу. Арус попытался склонить их к миру, но был убит. Оборона Аквилонии, ослабленная уничтожением боссонцев, была сметена, и Горм вскоре стал владыкой всего Запада. В это время земли на юге и востоке были покорены гирканцами. Варвары из Асгарда перемешались с немедийцами и образовали государство немедийских асов. Их вождь Хьялмар убил старого Горма в бою.

Через несколько десятилетий наступил ледниковый период, вынудивший северные племена двинуться на юг. Киммерийцы уничтожили недолго просуществовавшую на обломках Аквилонии империю пиктов и вторглись в Туран. На юге ваны захватили Стигию и основали королевство, названное Египет. Киммерийцы заселили побережье моря Вилайет и дали своё имя нынешнему Крыму, часть из них мигрировала на Запад после новой катастрофы и стала предками кельтских племён. Гирканцы стали предками тюркских племён и монголов.

!! Fictional history

The Hyborian Age has a long history of conquests and wars between its multitude of kingdoms. As it was forming the Aquilonian kingdom formed the most powerful region. Later Pictish unity overthrew Aquilonia while an invasion from the far Eastern kingdom of Hyrkania split the western kingdoms.

The Picts and Hyrkanians formed two massive empires facing each other leading to a period of relative peaceful development if not actual peace. This was changed when an invasion came from the less civilized Aesir.

Around this time the migration of the glaciers began forcing drastic changes and the Hyborian Age began its slide into myth.

!!! Cataclysmic ancestors

Howard explained the origins and history of the Hyborian civilization in his essay "The Hyborian Age".[7] The essay begins with the civilizations of the Thurian Age, Lemuria, and Atlantis (mentioned in his series about Kull) being destroyed by a cataclysm.

According to the essay, after this cataclysm, a tribe of primitive humans were at a technological level hardly above the Neanderthal. They fled to the northern areas of what was left of the Thurian continent to escape destruction. They discovered the region to be safe, but covered with snow and already inhabited by a race of vicious apes. The apes were large with white fur and apparently native to their land. The Stone Age invaders engaged in a territorial war with them and eventually managed to drive them off, past the Arctic Circle. Believing their enemies were destined to perish and no longer interested in them, the recently arrived group adapted to their new, harsh environment and its population increased.

!!! Hyborian ancestors

One thousand five hundred years later, the descendants of this initial group were called "Hyborians". They were named after their highest ranking god deity, Bori. The essay mentions that Bori had actually been a great tribal chief of their past who had undergone deification. Their oral tradition remembered him as their leader during their initial migration to the north, though the antiquity of this man had been exaggerated.

By this point, the various related but independent Hyborian tribes had spread throughout the northern regions of their area of the world. Some of them were already migrating south at a "leisurely" pace in search of new areas in which to settle. The Hyborians had yet to encounter other cultural groups, but engaged in wars against each other. Howard describes them as a powerful and warlike race with the average individual being tall, tawny-haired, and gray-eyed. Culturally, they were accomplished artists and poets. Most of the tribes still relied on hunting for their nourishment. Their southern offshoots, however, had been practicing animal husbandry on cattle for centuries.

The only exception to their long isolation from other cultural groups came due to the actions of a lone adventurer, unnamed in the essay. He had traveled past the Arctic Circle and returned with news that their old adversaries, the apes, were never annihilated. They had instead evolved into apemen and, according to his description, were by then numerous. He believed they were quickly evolving to human status and would pose a threat to the Hyborians in the future. He attempted to recruit a significant military force to campaign against them, but most Hyborians were not convinced by his tales; only a small group of foolhardy youths followed his campaign. None of them returned.

!!! Beginnings of the Hyborian Age

With the population of the Hyborian tribes continuing to increase, the need for new lands also increased. The Hyborians expanded outside their familiar territories, beginning a new age of wanderings and conquests. For 500 years, the Hyborians spread towards the south and the west of their nameless continent.

They encountered other tribal groups for the first time in millennia. They conquered many smaller clans of various origins. The survivors of the defeated clans merged with their conquerors, passing on their racial traits to new generations of Hyborians. The mixed-blooded Hyborian tribes were in turn forced to defend their new territories from pure-blooded Hyborian tribes which followed the same paths of migration. Often, the new invaders would wipe away the defenders before absorbing them, resulting in a tangled web of Hyborian tribes and nations with varying ancestral elements within their bloodlines.

The first organized Hyborian kingdom to emerge was Hyperborea. The tribe that established it entered their Neolithic age by learning to erect buildings in stone, largely for fortification. These nomads lived in tents made out of the hides of horses, but soon abandoned them in favor of their crude but durable stone houses. They permanently settled in fortified settlements and developed cyclopean masonry to further fortify their defensive walls.

The Hyperboreans were by then the most advanced of the Hyborian tribes and set out to expand their kingdom by attacking their backwards neighbors. Tribes who defended their territories lost them and were forced to migrate elsewhere. Others fled the path of Hyperborean expansion before ever engaging them in war. Meanwhile, the apemen of the Arctic Circle emerged as a new race of light-haired and tall humans. They started their own migration to the south, displacing the northernmost of the Hyborian tribes.

!!! Rulers of the West

For the next thousand years, the warlike Hyborian nations advanced to become the rulers of the western areas of the nameless continent. They encountered the Picts and forced them to limit themselves to the western wastelands, which would come to be known as the "Pictish Wilderness". Following the example of their Hyperborean cousins, other Hyborians started to settle down and create their own kingdoms.

The southernmost of the early kingdoms was Koth, which was established north of the lands of Shem and soon started extending its cultural influence over the southern shepherds. Just south of the Pictish Wilderness was the fertile valley known as "Zing". The wandering Hyborian tribe which conquered them found other people already settled there. They included a nameless farming nation related to the people of the Shem and a warlike Pictish tribe who had previously conquered them. They established the kingdom of Zingara and absorbed the defeated elements into their tribe. Hyborians, Picts, and the unnamed kin of the Shemites would merge into a nation calling themselves Zingarans.

On the other hand, at the north of the continent, the fair-haired invaders from the Arctic Circle had grown in numbers and power. They continued their expansion south while in turn displacing defeated Hyborians to the south. Even Hyperborea was conquered by one of these barbarian tribes. But the conquerors here decided to maintain the kingdom with its old name, merged with the defeated Hyperboreans and adopted elements of Hyborian culture. The continuing wars and migrations would keep the state of the other areas of the continent for another five hundred years.

!!! Time Line
The Atlantean continent's western regions sink, leaving only the islands that become Bal-Sagoth and Poseidonis. (??western; "The Gods of Bal-Sagoth," Howard; Poseidonis??)

The last Atlanteans, who flee northward, become the barbaric Cimmerians. The surviving Lemurians are enslaved by an unknown ancient race in the eastern part of the Thurian continent.

Mu rises again, and Ghatanothoa summons his servitors, the lloigor. The lloigor enslave the humans who came to live on the newly risen land. ("The Return of the Lloigor," Wilson; ??YEAR THIS SOURCE SAYS B/T 20,000 AND 12,000)

Bokrug and the Thuum'ha come to Earth and found the kingdoms of Ib in the Middle East and Lh-yib in the land of the Cimmerians.

c. 17,500 BC: A lesser cataclysm breaks the Thurian continent in two.

c. 15,500 BC: In the eastern part of the shattered Thurian continent, the Lemurians free themselves from slavery. The Lemurians travel west and overwhelm the serpent people there, founding the kingdoms of Acheron and Stygia. They adopt the practices of the serpent people and worship many dark gods, including Nyarlat, Sebek, Set, Gol-Goroth, and Shuddam-El. The Stygians also cultivate a plant called the Black Lotus, which "enhanced" their worship of their deities. ("The Hyborian Age," Howard; "Timeline of the Cthulhu Mythos," Appel; "The Children of Yig," Appel; "Dope War of the Black Tong," Price)

The surviving serpent people flee to the southern edge of the continent. ("The Children of Yig," Appel)

c. 15,000 BC: The Cimmerians, under the chieftain Crom-Ya, begin their ascent to glory. Crom-Ya is later deified as the god Crom. ("The Shadow Out of Time," Lovecraft)

c. 13,000 BC: The Hyborians, a northern people, conquer Acheron and form eight separate countries- Aquilonia, Argos, Brythunia, Corinthia, Koth, Nemedia, Ophir, and Zingara. Stygia, however, endures. ("The Hyborian Age," Howard; "Black Eons," Howard and Price)

The oldest copies of the R'lyeh Text, written on scrolls in a Chinese-esque language, date from at least this time, although they are probably older. (Ex Libris Miskatonici, Stanley)

c. 10,000 BC: The time of Conan. The Cimmerian barbarian wipes out the last serpent people in their Hyborian city of Yanyoga. ("Timeline of the Mythos," Appel; "The Children of Yig," Appel)

c. 9600 BC: The Hyborian Age begins to end, as the nations and peoples of the era begin to fight. Aquilonia and Hyperborea battle, the Picts and Hyrkanians wreak havoc across the land, and the Vanir destroy Stygia. The Aesir settle in Nemedia, and the Cimmerians war against the Hyrkanians before retreating to the east. The Hyborians themselves are overwhelmed by another northern people. This is the time of the heroic Ghor Kin-Slayer of the Aesir, and the warlord Gorm of the Picts. ("The Hyborian Age," Howard; "Black Eons," Howard and Price)

c. 9550 BC: A final cataclysm destroys the Hyborian world and rises new land masses, moving the world into more or less its modern configuration. Portions of the Hyborian continent, Poseidonis, and Mu all sink beneath the waves. In later times, this event is remembered as the Great Flood. ("The Hyborian Age," Howard; "Timeline of the Cthulhu Mythos," Appel)
