!! Adventure of the Week

One thing I find really intriguing about the Stars Without Number system (which you should feel free to cannibalize for your game) is that the early game can revolve heavily around money. Typically, owning a space ship that can support a party and all their adventures is gonna cost a lot more money than the average joe can reasonably spend all at once (typically around a million+ of your lore's space bucks). It's like buying a nice, big house, but this house flies around the universe. So what this means is that the players will be crunching for cash to make their monthly payments, plus maintenance and fuel, scraping out whatever they can as profit which in turn goes right back around to gear and upgrades.

When your players need money to function, they end up having a serious incentive to bounce around planet to planet picking up whatever well-paying odd jobs they can, whether that's transporting people and cargo, or hunting down criminals and assassinating political targets. It's up to you to take this incentive and run with it.

Set up a variety of interesting adventures disguised as "jobs". "Post" two or three of these jobs up on the sector's black market jobnet (craigspacelist or what-have-you), and let your players have at them. Example:

1: Our lab's got a bit of a bug problem. Looking for exterminators of the explosive variety. Want to keep this on the down-low for PR reasons. 175,000 spacebucks on completion. Contact Mr. Weyland at XXXXXXXXX.

2: Need to transport delicate, high-value, classified materials through Imperial space. Looking for experienced smugglers who can keep off sector security's radar. 225,000 credits. Mr. Ackbar, XXXXXXX.

----

A massive section of a deep-space station goes inactive, and can't be repaired. Life support slowly failing. A distress call is sent out to all nearby ships. The players are the only ones close enough to respond.

----

Players work for a resurection company. For the right amount of money, you can have the most recent backup of your mental self put in a fresh clone. Problem is, due to government regulation, without a confirmed death resuscitation is forbidden.

The PC's job is to go find proof of death when normal means fail.

----

This just came to mind... And I don't know savage worlds. But in deep space suddenly everything with a few exceptions stops working. Coms, warp/jump, navigation, maybe even life support. After bashing sensors enough to get rudimentary scans out it appears systems are jammed by some unknown force. Insert adventure here. They can't move on until the issue is dealt with.

My immediate thought was science vessel doing illegal research in low traveled deep space. But could be a planet emitting a defense system of a long dead civilization. Pirates. Booby trap of an old war...

----

I had a buddy give me the rundown on salvage rights and what kind of cash that entails [he's a boat captain in North Carolina so if he isn't talking about fishing, he is talking about expensive fishing equipment].

So you have the players be new hires to a small time salvage company. Rip off Futurama and say the previous crew died.

Give them a quick salvage so they can have some cash in their pocket....enough to keep them eating but then drop in some Bounty Hunting fliers.

Get a quick Firefly episode in where they have to take cows from one system to another.

Have them run into robots with a red light that plays left and right where their eyes should be.

Have them run into an old hermit that was the crazy officer when the allies blew up a Bridge on the Rive Kwai. Maybe he knows some old mystic stuff?

For the BBEG, have a tax auditor show up. How many times have you heard a player say "I keep the Receipt"

----

Something akin to [[Mercenary Breed -> http://mysticalthrone-ent.com/tag/mercenary-breed/]] comes to mind - the players are Mercenaries for some large organization (a military, mega corporation, etc) who sends them on dangerous missions - securing territory, stealing tech from other orgs, cleaning up space stations where experiments mutated everyone, etc.

----

They're the crew of a tramp freighter, or investigators hunting down leads to find the rogue crew of a tramp freighter.

They're bounty hunters, or they're witness in a key Star Law case, constantly on the run from bounty hunters who are tipped off by a corrupt Star Law Ranger.

They're soldiers in a dirty little border war, or insurgents in a dirty little border war, or mercenaries in a series of dirty little border wars.

They're prospectors in the asteroid belts, or they're claim jumpers in the asteroid belts.

They are the Champions of the Universal Light, and receive periodic Visions of Injustice in the Galaxy!

They're like the characters of <insert SF (novel | TV series | movie)> but with a twist - they're also like characters of <insert other SF (novel | TV series | movie)>

EDIT: Some more.

They're a First Contact team, either negotiating initial treaty terms or reconnoitering key military installations of alien species that have recently discovered FTL travel.

They're scouts, exploring potentially habitable worlds for the first time to evaluate their suitability for colonization.

They're a Special Operations team, conducting clandestine operations against insubordinate worlds at the behest of the Emperor | Senate | Galactic Overmind.

----

"Good news everyone" Or any other group for hire or agents of an agency. How about getting jobs from FBI HQ, or from the Sheriff of your local county, get jobs like the A-Team does, etc...
