!! Old Glory

Old Glory miniatures have a reputation for being good value for money. Granted, the poses sometimes just look like they've got to hurt, but some of the ranges are quite good and they're a fast way to bulk out an army. Of course, when thinking of pirates, we usually don't regard them in terms of armies, more in terms of crews. But if you need lots of them Old Glory are definitely the way to go and judging from the pictures they look pretty decent with some real gems. The pirate range can be found in the 1600-1700's section of the historical range and is probably the most extensive on the subject.

http://www.oldgloryminiatures.com

The range naturally includes a bag of pirate captains as well as lots of rank and file with all sorts of weapons. They have an artillery set with crew, as well as swivel guns with crew. And because it doesn't always have to be about guys, they also make female pirates (damn ugly ones too).

Attach:Ogp-2.gif Attach:Ogp-3p.gif

Especially nice is a lovely "pirate buried treasure party", because that's what pirates do with treasures: bury them.

Attach:Ogp-6.gif

There's a pack of dead pirates, as in 'dead' dead, not 'undead', and plenty of natural foes like European sailors, their artillery and their captains, the angry village mob or the fat governor, his creepy assistants, and his mounted guards. As the deserted islands where treasures are so dutyfully buried aren't always as deserted as one would expect there are a few packs of cannibal warriors, including a chieftain with throne and attendants, a canoe with crew and some captive pirates, one of whom is already being made privy to the pleasures of sitting in the cooking pot... But as not all tribes can be cannibals the Old Glory range kindly provides some friendly voodoo warriors. Finally to top it off there are some seasoned British marines with mitre caps.

Attach:Ogp-25.gif

Since all work and no play makes our pirates... something... something, there are also the recreational sets portraying those late hours in badly lighted taverns, drinking and gambling ("There’s trouble abrewing here") and the all-important set of looting pirates. In some cases that loot seems to be about women...

Attach:Ogp-16.gif 

They also have pirate ships. A nice feature is the rowboat, complete with crew and treasure chest, but there's more. They produce some full pirate ships: the Man ‘O War with 40 guns (3 Masted, 40 cannon 2 decker, with playable forecastle, quarter deck & bottom deck, 28” long resin ship with cast metal fittings & wooden masts), the Brigantine with 10 guns (2 Masted, 10 cannon Brigantine with playable quarter deck/No forecastle, 17” long resin ship with cast metal fittings & wooden masts)

Attach:Ogp-10.gif Attach:Ogp_9.jpg
	
And just when we thought they couldn't spoil us anymore than they already have, they do it anyway and release a Ghost Pirate ship, complete with undead crew.

Attach:OGP-32_insert.jpg