!! Redneck Rampage Rides Again

*Note: Not all of the secrets are listed here, but you'll find them all in Cory's carefuly compiled list of all the secrets in all the game, which is linked on the main page os this site.

!!! Area 69, "From Billy "

!!!! Third secret, "From Martin "

Secret 3 is located in the room with the water tanks. Look for the crack in the glass and throw a stick of dynamite at it and run like you know what. Nothing in there except cow pie but it is the secret.

This is hard to put into words but, here it goes: Turn and jump the step where it seems the lowest. Turn right and the first key is on the rock behind Banjo Coot and guitar Jeeter, but don't try to shoot them save your ammo they can't hurt you.

Turn right and walk into the canyon. Round a couple of bends and you will come to a big closed gate with a tower. You won't be able to open the big gate but look at the little door to the right, walk up to it and open it and go in and flip the switch and this will open the big gates. 

By the tower there is a ladder, go up the ladder and flip the switch and jump down and go to the first small building nearest you with computers inside. You need to go inside until you find another switch then flip it and then you need to come outside the building and go in between the two big trucks, jump up on the loading dock and open the garage door and go in and flip the switch. 

Then you need to go to the building right beside it where the big door is open and go in and at the end of the hall you will notice another blue door but you can't go open it. There is a vent on your left so you need to turn and crouch and break it and go through until you come out to another place with a switch; now this switch opens the big blue door but it only it opens for a few seconds so you need to hit that switch and then run like hell to the end of the hall to the other big blue door, it opens and once inside you need to go down the elevator. 

Then you come to a big circular room and you need to go to the room that has the blue light where you just go down a ramp, then you turn and there are several ramps and then the second key is on the table in the room. 

Then you need to go back up and go in the room with several doors, open up every door and you will notice there is a desk in each room. Look at each desk you come to, one desk has a switch behind it which you need to flip. Then this will open the elevator right outside the hall where you came in. 

Then you need to to down the elevator. Then you need to go to the room on your left with all of the frank dolyes n it, then you need to flip that switch in the computer room. Come out and you will notice that one of the doors is open on your right. Go to the end of the hall, make another right, just keep going through the rooms until you come into the room where there is another switch which you need to flip. 

Then go back out the way you came that switch opens the door right across from you. Then you need to go down that hall and then on your left, open the other set of doors and go in that room and find the switch behind the desk, flip it and then go back to the other room where the doors would not open before but now are open, go in that room and you flip another switch and then go back out and get on te elevator and go back up. Then there is another elevator nearby that the switch opened, now you need to go down that one and go to the end of the hall and make a left, go down the stairs into the theater and then clear across from the way you came in, there is another elevator, you need to go down that one and you should come out to the place where there is a UFO. 

then you need to go to the inside where there is a switch on the wall, you need to flip it to open the big metal doors at the bottom of the ramp Once inside you need tomake a right and then another right and a left, then flip that switch and do not bother going inside the space ship. There is nothing in there but a cow pie and go back out to where the UFO is and you will notice that another door is open, go inside and there is a big metal platform, that is a elevator you need to go up that and then there is a switch on both sides, you need to climb up one ladder, hit the button, jump down, then climb up the othere ladder, hit that button and that will open the door to the plane. 

Once outside you need to go in the building wth all the crates, then where you can jump up on the crates the third key is on top of the crates. Then that key unlocks the door to the plane. Once inside the plane you need to go up those revolving stairs to the cockpit and flip that switch. That opens the gate to your Harley Motorcycle and you need to go inside that gate and you will notice is one more switch, you need to flip to open the front part of the airplane so you can drive your Harley out. When you drive your Harley out, go next to the sign and just drive off into the sunset. There is no Bubba on this level.

SECRET 1- Where you took the second elavator. The door where the first switch opened the second room on the left with the crates. There is a crack inthe wall, blow it up.

SECRET 2- In the place with all the little rooms with a desk in most. There is a desk against the wall. Push it.

SECRET 3- ?????????????

Hint: So far I hadn't used the Harley. To damn touchy. If you are wreckless my advice is don't use it or your health will keep decreasing.

!!! CAMINO DEL DIABLO, From Billy

There are 2 keys, 3 secrets. & a Bubba on this level.

You start off by a river. You can either ride the Harley or walk. I walked; to many bends and dropoffs. Follow the tire track on your journey. Keep walkin or rideing untill you come to th resteraunt called Jack-o-lope in a Box. Go inside and jump the counter, and the 1st key is by the gronder. Go back outside and get next to the drive thru menu. When it says Thank you drive through the first secret will open in the canyon across from you. 

The second secret is on up the road where the canyon breaks and a lava river below. Jump across. Now go back the way you came. On your left you will notice a cave in the canyon, and inside is a gate with the second key behid it. Go back out and keep following the track untill you come to the hole in the canyon on your left. Go in keep walking untill you come out high up walk the ledge on your left. Go in the opening on your left & go up for secret three. 

Follow the tracks untill you get to where the ground is splitting with lava and, go up the ramp on your right. Jump on the piece of ground on your left, and go over to the opening in the canyon. Walk the ledge around the lava, and go through the hole in the wall. Open the door; jump across the lava: crouch and break the vent: go in flip the switch. Go back out and go to the end of the hall and flip the switch. Finally go back outside and keep going. Bubba is around the corner.

!!! El Peso, By Billy 

Three keys, 4 secrets, and a Bubba. I only found 2 secrets.

!!!! Third secret From Victor

When you finish with the second secret and go for the river, don't jump in it. follow the narrow path on the cliffs. after jumping over to the other side several times, you'll find a cave on the right side. go in, and that is the 3rd secret. It's kinda hard to do without good health since those jack-rabbits are really annoying :)

!!! Another Secret By Bob McCusker

Go to the gutted out building behind Jackson's Store. Standing in front facing the doorway look up and to your right, there is a ledge there with a cowpie and moonshine that is a secret area.

Now to get up there you have to go around to the left side of the building and find a yellow sign that says unstable area. When you find it either use your crossbow or a stick of dyno-mite and blow up the wall (you have to kinda aim for the sign :-) Then climb the wall edges to the wooden beam jump across to it then jump across to the ledge and that's it.

You start out in a prison and no weapons. So now you have to build up your weapons again. Jump in the toilet behind you and go down, swim over to the next toilet, go up and grab a dynamite in that cell and then go back down the toilet and go under water and go to the next toilet and go up and you will see a crack in the wall; just throw dynamite and go back under water real quick and come back up and a place in the wall will be blown open. Go out into the hall and very quickly run by the 2 end jail cells and go upstairs and pick up amino. Then you can throw the switch up against the wall to open the jail cells. 

Then go outside and over by the bank you will see a big well. It is boarded up so throw dynamite to blow up boards, go over to the well, go down under water and swim through the path and there is 2 openings but go through the opening that looks like a pipe and to out into the room where there is a desk and there is the first key. 

Come back where the chimney is, go in the chimeny with the red light and you will drop down into your first secret place, then from there jump into the water and go back the way that you came. 

Next, go over to the hotel, go up the stairs and open the first door you come to. Then you are able to jump on the roof outside and go all the way down to the right, turn right and at the end you will see an open window and jump in to get the 2nd key.

Jump back out and go over to the bank and when you open the door go all the way down to the right, go in that room and behind the desk and push the button. Next go back out and run past the door you came in and open the othere door, then go to the desk and by the desk on the wall is another button and push that one and go back out and by the door you originally came in you will see a little place by the safe that has opened and has a red light. The button is way back inside so you will have to shoot it and once the door comes open in the safe, there is a safety deposit box near the ground that is whitter than the rest. Crouch down and open it for the third key. 

Then go back outside of the bank and go to the back of the barn and climb the ladder and go all the way to your left and you will drop down to your 2nd secret. When you come back out, go to your right and then open that door and that will lead you to the big river where you can either go on the ledges and shoot everything or just jump in the water and it will take you down. 

You will fall over the waterfall and go straight past the big wooden beams and then turn around because there is a ladder on one of the beams. Climb that ladder, go out onto the beam a little bit, turn toward the hole in the canyon where Bubba is screaming and jump up and beat his fat useless ass.

!!! Jack-O-Lope Farm,From Billy 

3 keys, 1 secret, and a Bubba. I didn't find the secret.

!!!! Secret place. From Billy

In the warehouse where the third key is. Jump on a crate and then jump on the tires. The secret is in that little space by the tires.

Hope you stocked up on weapons, because there's a ton of Jack-o-lope's. First go up the ramp straight across from where you started. Go around the house to the chimney, and climb the ladder. Go in, drop down, crouch, and go in. Your in the cellar, so go up the stairs and the first key is in the living room on a table.

Go up stairs, and go in the bedroom at the far end. The second key is on the table. 

Go back down to the cellar, and open the door. Across from, you is a hole in the wall. Jump in and swim to the well, and jump out. Now go back down the ramp, and go to the big metal building. Open the door and go in the room on your right the third key is on the desk. 

Go back outside, back up the ramp, and go in the barn. Flip the switch, and go in the doors beside you. Fliip the switch straight in front of you, and turn around quick this opens the four gates and a ticket to hell. 

After the blood bath go in the last gate on your right. Jump the fence, flip the switch, and make your way back outside. Watch out for king Jack-o-lope. Bubba is across the yard.

!!! Waco,From Billy 

3 keys, Bubba, & 2 secrets.

!!!! The Secrets from Bruce

Once you come out the bunker and hit the switch where the floor breaks, look down on your right and you'll notice a ledge with steps... Down the steps and crouch, the first secret is on your right. You'll hear the guitar and banjo music if you're in the right location. Go out the way you came in, and enter the door that opened with the switch. Keep going, shooting enemies that happen to be in your way, until you find Billy Ray standing by the pipes. The cement wall behind Billy Ray is a door concealing the second secret.

You start off by a cut in the canyon to your right. People are shootimg everywhere out of the house. Run like hell down the cut, and run to your left by the two police cars and SWAT van. Go in the back of the van. Flip the switch to blow up the house. 

There is a hole you drop down in the rubble. This underground passage is confusing, so if you get lost hit TAB for your map. Go to your left, anf then straight. The first key is laying on a pipe, but you have to jump on a ledge to get it. 

Go back the way you came far enough untill you see another open passage. Follow that one untill it branches off. Go right. Go all the way to the end, and go down the bunker. Flip the switch to your left, and enter the now open supply room. Go to the back flip the switch, then exit the supply room. 

Go to the end where Daisy May was and jump across. Flip the switch and open the drawer for the second key. 

Go back outside the bunker, and go back where you branched off. Now go the other way untill you come to a door. Open it and get the third key. 

Now go back to where you got the first key open that door. Go in hit the switch go in the next door, and walk the thin ledge. Go in the bunker at the end of the ledge. Open the door. Go in and open the door on your right, and you guessed it flip the switch. 

Back out the bunker and press on. At the end of that path, or at least where the floor breaks, their is a switch on your right you know what to do with it by now. 

Go back and the door is opened bythe bunker, and go in go to passage on your right. Go to you right and flip the switch, and come back squat to go under the machinery. At the end of the path is fat boy.

!!! El Peso, Again, From Billy 

3 keys, Bubba, and 4 secrets.

!!!! The Three Secrets from Bruce

Climb the tall ladder as though you were heading towards the spiral staircase, but instead, drop down the large octagon shaped hole. Walk down the hallway where you'll come to a square hole, but don't drop down... You'll notice a couple sticks of dynamite on the floor in front of a wall. Push the wall straight back to reveal two secret rooms on your right and one on your left. Not sure why those rooms are secrets, two contain enemies, the other has just a buzzsaw.

!!! Some secrets from Hill Billy

     #3 Go up the big latter, forward to the the other ledge. go right until you find a 4" ledge, get on it follow it around. #4 DO! GO IN THE HOLE. straight across hall is stairs to 4th room.

You start off under a canyon and go all the way to your right along the ledge, then you will see the place where you hit Bubba in the El Paso; and the first key is where Bubba was. 

Go back the way you came and cross the bridge to the church, open the church door and go all the way to the back and there is a hole in the wall where you drop down. Walk forward a little bit and drop down and walk the little ledge to your left and then when you come to the end, drop down to your far left and then drop down to the floor and go all the way forward as you can; then you will see a ladder, climb the ladder and then walk around the arena. 

Then the steps should lead you down into the bottom part of the arena. Keep going forward until you see another ladder, climb all the way up this and then make a right,then make another right and go up the twisty stairs. There is a fire pit that is round and you drop down the space beside it. 

Now you are in another room that has four doors, two in the front and one on each side. There is a switch on the stage (you will notice theis switch has 4 nitches where you can flip them). Now you flip that one to the 3rd nitch and then a door opens across from you. It has the same switch device on the wall and you put them that on 1. Then one of the door opens on the side, then you go there and flip that one to 1. That door opens the door straight across from you, the lava pit room. Go in there and flip the switch to 4. That opens the 4th door, go up in there and put the switch to 3 and you should hear a boom. 

Now you will drop down and thefirst door you open, then go back out to the stage on your right there is a hall with a door that just opened up. A UFO is outside, so you need to right in the middle of the light and it wil zap you up into the space ship. Now you are in a revolving room with 4 paths that lead to red lights and you need to run up one path to the right light and it will zap you out into the town of El Paso. 

Look familiar? So go into the saloon but you can't use the door, you are going to have to jump on a haystack in the back of the saloon and go in the window and the second key is on the pool table. 

Go back the way you came and go to the place beside the saloon and open that door, then open the next door and the third key is laying in that room. Go back out into the street and go to the jail again, flip the switch to open the jail cells and that fat turd is in the far end cell.

!!! REFINERYFrom Billy 

3 keys, Bubba but you don't have to hit him. 2 secrets but only found 1.

!!!! The other secret From Billy

The other secret is after you climb the ladder on the second vat instead of going in the opening and crawling through the tube. Jump on top of the next vat to your left, and then jump on the ledge across from you.

Get on your Harley straight ahead of you and jump across the canyon, then go down the tunnel and when you almost at the point where you come out, you will notice a crack on your right side in the wall. you need to throw dynamite at the crack. Go in and you will see another building with a crack in the wall and you need to throw dynamite at that. 

Go throught the little tunnel and you will come out in an office and you need to go up the stairs and make your way around and come up on the pump and you will see the first key on top of the metal cabinet, you need to jump across to get the first key. 

Go back out the way you came and now you can open the gate to get into the refinery. You need to go your right and all the way to the back behind the metal building and you will see a big crate against the wall. You need to push that out for the secret. 

Now go a little further until your are in front of the metal building and then go straight and you will see to your left a ladder against one of the oil tanks, you need to climb up there and there should be stilts holding it up. One of them has a switch but it is just a wheel, you need to activate that and get off the oil tank and there is another oil tank besides that now reveals a ladder and you need to climb up that ladder and bust that vent . 

Go all way throught the tunnel and you will drop down into the tank, then you need to climb the ladder and flip the switch to open the door. Walk across the ledge to the other open oil tank, now you need to jump on the center of the spinners and you need to jump on the ladder opposite the way you came in. You need to climb up that ladder and flip that switch. You need to drop down to the oil and keep goingall the way down until you see the open space and flip the switch to open the vent. 

Now just keep swimming until you come out into a circular room that has a gate all the way around it. Now you need to go up to the open space and walk around and flip the other switch. 

Now the oil has dropped down in the tank a little bit, now you need to jump back in it and go down and you will see another opening. Swim sraight and go up a little bit and you will see another opening, now to swim all the way to the end of that one and go up and jump out of that tank and go straight and make a right and this will drop you down into another part of the sewer and you will see a ladder right across you. 

You need to climb that ladder, you will come up into the cafeteria and you will see a switch on the wall, flip it and then go out that door and you will see the big doors have opened out where the crates are. See the 2 windows in front of the crates that are open,one of them has a broken grate. Now you will need Moonshine for this. You need to just get on a crate across from the window, the one which is torn, push the crate to the window, and jump and there is the second key. 

Now you climb the box to get outside and then on your left you will see a garage door. Open that, go straight into the elevator and go up and the first door on your right you will notice that there is another garage door but you cannot open this yet. So you need to go out and go across the little bridge, then go to your right and make another right and you should come to an office and the button is behind the desk. You need to push that button and then go back out to where the garage door is you could not open, now it should be open. 

You need to go in there and there is the third key. Go back down the elavator go back to where all the crates are and open the door beside them. Go in, and down the elavator. In that room is another elavator, and go down. You come in a control room go downstairs and flip the switch on both sides of the wall. Go out on the catwalk, and flip the switch to go down. Flip the switch on the left hand side of the control board, and then go back up on the catwalk by flipping the switch that brought you down. 

Then go to the other end and open the gate and keep going until you come to the oil tank that has no floor. You need to throw that switch to bring the platform over to you, then walk along the ledge on your left, go all the way over and flip that switch. Then come back around and get on the platform and pusht he button so that it takes you to the other side, then get on that elevator and go up. Go to thebig garage door, open that, go in and there will be three switches, one on the wall and other two are on the metal beams. Set them all to 4, you will hear several explosions but wait for a few minutes and then go to the back of the oil tank in that room.

Then jump in the crack and this will drop you down into a sewer and just keep following. just fall down the fall of oil and then the level will end.

!!! Sunny Shores, From Billy 

3 keys, Bubba & secrets

!!!! Secret from "Hill Billy"

Behind the busted down building with docks and a volleyball court, is a pool of water. Save the game!! Hit 'Z' to go down, you'll find a tunnel (Third time). Come back up hit f3 after you find it, if your health is low.

The demo shows you where to go to get your Swamp Buggy, and I advise you take it. Know matter how hard you hit anything in the swamp you won't lose any health. Besides you get around a lot faster. This swamp is very confusing it has a lot of twists and turns, but I will try my best to walk you through to all three keys. 

When you start out in your swamp buggy you exit to your left where there is a big log floating in the water. Make a right go down untill you come to a fork in the swamp, and make another right. 

You have come to the plane has crashed, now go under water and go up and swim into the cockpit; the first key is on the dashboard. 

Now you have to go down another passage and I couldn't tell you how to get to it so just roam around until you stumble across it. It has lots of mesquoites and swamp minions. Now go and keep following a path that leads down into a house in the swamp and open the door and go out the back and the second key is on top of the furnace. 

Now go back out the way you came and run around against the weeds and it should bring you to a secret. 

Now go to the boat dock which has a switch and a gate at the endand open the door and go in and the third key should be on top of the crates. 

Now go back out and flip the switch and this will open the gates and go out and make a right and keep going straight and Bubba should be on a dock.

!!! Gamblin' Boat, From Billy 

3 keys, Bubba & 1 secret from Eric

!!!! Gamblin' Boat secret from Eric

Go up to the captains' quarters (the same room where you find the first key). Now, stand in front of the steering wheel, and hit the space bar, which blows the horn. Now turn around and face the doorway to the stairs leading out. On the wall in front of you, and to the left side, there is a painting of what looks like a small group of people pointing at something. Go to the sloped bench against the left wall, get on it, walk to the back wall near the painting, and jump _into_ the painting! There you will find a goo-goo cluster and yer scattergun shells. It may not be important to blow the horn-I didn't check on that

Start off in the water. Go around the boat, and climb the ladder. Climb quickly. There are three levels on the boat. Lower level stretches all the way around the boat. Middle goes around the front part. And the main is a little area at the top. 

Go to the middle and flip the switch. Climb ladder back to main. You''ll notice the dorr opened to go up in the captain's quarters, and the first key is up there. 

Now go down to the lower level, and open the doors that look like blinds. Upon entering this room you will notice that there are two passageway on your right and one on your left. You need to start bygoing down the one on your left and once you are down that hall you need to make another left and you can only explore the rooms where the doors are open. 

One room where the door is open in the back near the end of the hall, there is a switch on the bed. Come back out and go the right side with the rooms. Then at the end room you can open that door and the second key is in the shower. 

Go back out and go to the room on your left that leads you up the stairs and open that gate. Push the button behind the register, go over the open the doors to the kitchen. There are three freezers, side by side. You can only open the middle freezer and go in and you will notice that there is a little opening on both sides, you need to shoot both buttons and then come back out. Go in both freezers and one of them should have a switch to flip. 

Go back out in the dining hall and open more doors that look like blinds. Then go around to the front and the third key is laying on the bench. 

Go back out to the dining hall and go down the stairs and go in the other passageway. At the end of the hall make a left and you will see a switch you can flip and you flip that one and that opens doors to an elevator that you need to go in and flip that switch and that lowers you to the casino. 

When you get out of the elevator, go down the stairs and on your left by the stairs is a roluette table with a switch that you need to push. Go back upstairs and go around,it does not matter which side you go around, there is a door open by both sides. When you go in you will notice that there is an elevator on both sides, one side says "out of order" so flip the switch in the hallway and open the one elevator door and go in and go down and then go to your left and go down that hall and you will notice that the door has opened to go into the furnace room. 

Go down an go clear to the back and push the silver button on each side. Next climb up the furance inthe middle, and turn the crank. You'll hear an explosion the ship is blowing up. you will needto get down, and go down the ladder straight across from you. Turn that crank go under water, and go through the tear in the gate. Go up the pipe, and at the end of the wreckage turn left.

You will go under water again. I forget the directions you take. Play around with it alittle and you will notice when you come out in the opening you can go up above water. Just go down the falls in front of the boat and there is "fat boy".

!!! Lummockston, From Billy 

3 keys, Bubba & no damn secrets

Get on your buggy, and at the 4 way intersection go left. You will come to a closed gate with a switch by it. Flip the switch, and the gates open. Get your buggy as close to the opening as possible. Get off (your buggy) jump on your buggy, and then make another jump on land. The first key is in the trailer on the desk.. 

Come back out, but before the gate will open you have a big problem to take care of. Don't waste your time trying to get on the big crane their is nothing there. 

When you get back to the 4 way go left, and make the first right. You will come to a gas station/grocery store/resteraunt. Go in the restaraunt, and the back of the kitchen in a room is the second key. 

Go back the way you came at the 4 way make a right and go with the curve.You will come to a path that leads to a pool hall in the back of the woods. The third key is on the table in the back  room. Go back the way you came, and make a right at the 4 way. Go to the end, go in the warehouse. Open the door, go underwater. flip the switch, go out the garage door, and there's that useless tub of lard.

!!! Disgraceland, From Billy 

3 keys, Bubba & 3 secrets

!!!! Third Secret by Moonrock

The third secret in Disgraceland is in the pantry by the kitchen of the house. You must first go up to the big stack of dishes by the sink in the kitchen and "wash" them using the spacebar, then a secret door opens up in the pantry shelves in the room just to your left next to the kitchen. Inside is a goo-goo cluster.

!!!! Second Secret By Whiskeyhigh

In the basement at Elvis's house, when you flip the switch the tv comes on...but there is an opening in the wall behind the picture, that's one of the secrets...

You start off in a swamp. Go left. When you come outof the swamp make a right go across bridge and make a left. Turn valve on the small building, and go back to the little bridge. Go underwater and swim to the other side. Go left or right down the road until you come to the house. 

Then go to the back of the house and there is a switch beside the back door which you need to flip. Then go back in front of the house and open the gate directly across from the house and go in and get the first key.

Then you need to go around to the back of the house and go to where there is another gate. Open that gate, there are two directions - left or right; go left and you will run intoanother gate which you cannot open. You need shoot the alarm system on the other side and then go back to the other side and you should be able to open the door and go through Elvis museum. Come out and make a right and you will come to his pool and the second key is on the bench. 

Make your way back to the front of the house and you will be able to open the door. Go to the right and where the TV and piano is there is a button behind the TV you can push to open the drapes for a secret. Then go straight across and there will be the dining room and then you need to go into the kitchen. Then go to the room off the kitchenand by the catcus in back of the room is a switch to flip. 

Now go back into the kitchen and open the door to the basement. Then go down to the end of the hall, jump across the bar and there is a switch behind the bar. 

Now you need to go back out into the hall and on your left another door has opened. Go in and there is another switch behind the pool table. Flip that and then go back upstairs and go to the second level of the house. once up there where there is doors with jack-o-lopes on it. Open that and the third key is on the bed. 

Now make your way back to the pool area and follow the path to Elvis grave, then open the doors and go in and flip the switch. Come back out and fall inside Elvis grave. Follow the passageway until you come to a ladder, climb up the ladder. Elvis lives !!!

!!! Moto-Madness, From Billy 

3 keys, Bubba (but y'all don't have to hit him & 3 secrets

Go up the hill, and go in the ticket booth. Hit the cash register, and that will open the gate. Go in the hot dog stand, and flip the switch. Come back out, and go down the hill to the garage. Stand on the traiker hitch, then jump on the roof for the first secret. Jump back down and open the garage door and the first key is to your left on a box.

Come out and open the garage door straight across from the one you opened, go up the stairs and flip the switch. Now go back out and on your left hand side a gate has opened to go into the speedway. 

Now this track that you will follow you need to go around it the first time without the motorcycle. So keep following the track until you come to a little creek with a refinery to your right. 

     *Bertram's Lair Exclusive hint* On yer down in the water, with the refinery (Which is really more like a gravel pit/rock crusher) there's a cave on yer left. Go in, explore around, set off the earthquake and the rest of this part will be one heck of a lot easier !!!

Get on the bulldozer close to the front and you will see a little ledge to walk to the refinery (you may not see this at first, it took me several times, but keep trying). Now run across the rock crusher and go into the building and flip that switch. Then push the detantor, then go back out the same way you came and then when you climb the hill you will see to your right a little patch of grass, go around there and you will find your second secret. 

Then just keep following the track until you are back where you started, now jump on your Harley and on your left hand side by the stands you will notice the gate doors have opened. Drive around the bend and jump your motorcycle to the other side, keep following the track and you will come to a spot that goes downhilland has billboards on the sides. Drive your Harley down that way and then jump across the canyon.

Follow the tracks again until you come to another place where you will have to jump across the canyon and there on a haystack you will find the second key. 

Now straight front of you is anothere switch that you activate andit turns a ramp around to jump across the fence. Take your Harley and jump across it. Then go around to the front of the building and you should see another Harley sitting there. 

Open those doors and go down and you will come out into a motorcycle stunt arena. On your right there is a place where you can jump up on the hay bales for your third secret. 

Then drive your Harley around to the big ramp where moonshine lines the way. The problem that I had with this is you need to line your motorcycle up perfect to jump the ramp. Grab a bottle of moonshine and get has far back as you can, drink the moonshine and then try to jump the ramp you will go throught the hoop and onto the wall across from it and you will land on the other side. Go in the hallway and up the elevator and the third key will be laying on the desk. 

Go back the way you came clear to where the moonshine was where you start off to jump the ramp. Unlock that door, go in and climb upon the ramp and jump on the train with Bubba and the level will just end.

!!! Brothel, From Billy 

2 keys, Bubba & 2 secrets

!!!! 2nd Secret From Brian Fulmer

I would just like to let you know where the 2nd secret place in the Brothel level is. When you come to the over head shack that appears to have nothing to do, look for two branches sticking out from the side. These branches are on the side of the shack without the door. Carefully jump from branch to branch to road.
From where you start go straight you will come to a swamp. Make a left at the fork. Run along the weeds behind the first shack you come to, and you will come along a secret.

Go in the shack wth the door open and flip the switch on the back wall. Back outside and go to the next shack with the gate. Open it go inside flip the switch and get on your buggy.

When outside go out the now open gates. Follow the swamp to a shack, nothings there just telling you so I won't lose you. Keep going till you come to a train wreck overhead, and another set of gates. Turn the crank on one of the pillars. Drive till you come to the Brothel. Don't worry about the diffrent routes in the swamp theyall come to the same place.

Go around back, and push the button on the cola machine. Then go back to the front, and open the door on your right. In one of the dressing rooms by the stage is a button that needs to be pushed.

Now go upstairs, and go down the hall to your right. Open the door, and push the button on the bedpost. Go back out and make another right. The door is now open go upstairs, and the first key is on the window sill.

Go out back to where the cola machine is, and walk along the dock untill you come to gates. Open them and go over by the pool. Climb up the ladder on the diving board, then go off the diving board and when you go under water you will see a little passage opening in front of you. Be quick about going off the diving board and swimming in the water because the passage way only opens for a few seconds. Swim to the end , come up and flip the switch then go back down under water and there is a switch on the right hand side but you have to be quick when you flip because the door also opens for a few seconds. 

Then come out of the pool, go into the mens shower room, the last shower stall has a hole in it where you can look into the girls shower room. Then through it. Whoever is in your way, then you will see a pair of panties with a heart on them. You need to shoot that because behind it is a button that will open the girls shower room door. Go out and go in the girls shower room and the second key is on the bench. 

Go out and go down the path on the right and when you come to that shack open the door and push the button onthe headboard of the bed. Then go down the passage to the next shack and open the door and push the button on the headboard. Finally, go down the othere path with the Harley sitting in front, open that door and go in and push the stack of crates to reveal a switch, flip that and the bed will move and you need to go behind it, go up the ladder, then open that door, go in the sewers,

go all around till you come to another door you need to open. Go inside, then follow the path up the stairs and then in the control room flip that switch, then go back outside and open those doors. Go around to the other side, go down in another control room and flip that switch, come back up and go around to where you come in and go down the elevator and flip the switches on both sides of the room. Come back up and on both sides there are Bubbas and you need to flip the switch in the middle of the tubes and come back out and then hit both Bubbas but they are not the real Bubbas. Then go to the other side, turn the crank and do the same thing with both Bubbas, then go back around to the elevator, go down and a red button will be revealed straight in front of you but it is high up so you have to shoot it. This will open the tube to your left and jump in and there is Bubba.

!!! Back to Hickston, From Billy 

No keys, no Bubba & no damn secrets

Start off in a sewer. Go straight, climb up the ladder, turn, and jump across the hole. Go right and your in Hickston. Go in the open door to the bank on your left, and come back out. You got a problem, but once you take care of it the garage door on the auto shop opens. go in then back out, and another problem. Once you take care of it go n the open door to the factory by the dirt road. Go in take care of that problem and the game ends. Now try some user levels. Later!!