!! Treasure Island Dizzy

!!! Story Line

Dizzy was looking forward to the round-the-world cruise he'd booked for. When he told the other Yolkfolk about the good deal he found, they wondered just what lay ahead of him... Dizzy enjoyed the cruise at first although there were far too many pirates on the ship, the Grog was watered down, and he didn't even know what a mainbrace was, let alone how to splice it! The captain, Long John Silver, was a lovely old bloke with a kindly manner, good at insulting and degrading the fare paying punters. 
He was well balanced - he had parrot on one shoulder and a chip on the other - and he had a wooden leg which he acquired when he fell out of his pram when he was a kid. Anyhow, their quaint little man o' war found itself in still waters one sun-soaked afternoon, and Dizzy thought he would organise a game of cricket on the aft deck. In a fit of blinding stupidity he used LJ's spare leg collection as makeshift stumps, and when they were lost overboard he was made to walk the plank! That was how he came to find himself gently poaching on the silent, sun-kissed beach of a seemingly deserted island... He had to somehow find a way back to the Yolkfolk and lodge his compensation claim with the travel agent...

!!! The 'Quattro Adveture' Story Line

All the Yolkfolk gathered at the beach to wave goodbye to Dizzy in his boat. He had built it himself and it really was very nice, with its bright white sails and shiny red hull. Dizzy felt proud as Daisy kissed him goodbye and the fresh sea breeze filled the sails, and the boat sailed out to sea on its first voyage.The sky was clear and the weather was fine as Yolkfolk village disappeared over the horizon. Dizzy dangled his fishing rod over the side and daydreamed about what adventures might lie ahead in strange, distant lands. Suddenly the wind stiffened, the boat started to roll, and dark clouds gathered in the sky. 'Grand Dizzy was wrong about weather', thought Dizzy as the waves started breaking over the side of the boat. Before long a ferocious storm was raging, and Dizzy's little boat was being tossed about in the enormous waves. Lightning crackled and thunder roared as Dizzy tried bravely to keep the boat afloat, but it was no use. Just before the boat sank below the surface, Dizzy spotted a distant island illuminated by a flash of lightning. He dived into the heaving waters and started to swim... That was how Dizzy came to find himself poaching on the silent, sun-kissed beach of a seemingly deserted island. Now he had to somehow find a way back to Zakeria, land of the Yolkfolk.