!! Encyclopedia Hyboria

Abombi – Kushite city ruled by King Ajaga that was sacked by the Black Corsairs of Amra the Lion.

Acheron – Ancient empire of sorcerers ruled from the city of Python three thousand years prior to the life of Conan.  The greatest of Acheron’s wizards was Xaltotun.  The empire thrived until it was overthrown by barbarians after they stole the source of Xaltotun’s power from him and forced his retreat to the city of Khemi in Stygia.  At its peak, Acheron stretched over an enormous swath of land including the regions later known as Aquilonia, Nemedia, and Argos.  During this time, Acheron subjugated the old kingdoms of Ophir, Corinthia, and western Koth.

Adonis – Deity worshipped in Shem.

Aesir – Peoples of Asgard in northern Hyboria.  They were characterized by their yellow hair, impressive height, and warlike nature.

Afari – Gallah servant to Tuthmes of Kushite ancestry who lived in the city of Shumballa.

Afghulis – Warrior tribes that lived in Ghulistan near the Himelian Mountains above the borders of Vendhya.

Ageera – Witch-finder of Punt in the nation of Kush.

Agha – Title for a Turanian lord.

Agha Shupras – Leader of the light cavalry of Khoraja who fought nobly at the battle of the Pass of Shamla, though he was slain by an arrow through the heart.  His title as Agha indicated that he defected from Turan to join the independent state of Khoraja under King Khossus.

Aghrapur – Capital of the kingdom of Turan.

Aja – War-chief of the Bakalah, loyal to King Bajujh.  When Conan betrayed his alliance with Bajujh, Aja was the first Bakalah he slew.

Ajaga – King of Abombi who perished during the sacking of the city by the Black Corsairs of Amra the Lion.

Ajonga – Black Corsair who sailed under Amra the Lion before being taken as a slave by Captain Demetrio of the Venturer.  He rallied to Conan in order to sail as a Black Corsair once again after revolting against their slave masters.

Ajujo – the Dark One.  God worshipped by the majority of the Tombalku.

Akbatana/Akbitana – Palace chamber from which Natohk sent his spirit as a cosmic obscenity to plague his victims.  This chamber was located in a city-state of Eastern Shem which bore the same name.

Akif – Hyrkanian city ruled by Shah Amurath on the southern shores of the Vilayet sea.

Akivasha – Princess of ancient Stygia and denizen of the pyramid at Khemi.  The daughter of Tuthamon, Akivasha willingly became a vampire to gain eternal life and dwell in the pyramid at Khemi for over ten thousand years.

Akkharim – Shemitish city.

Akkutho I – King of ancient Koth known for seeking to revive the faded glories of Khorshemish.

Akrel – Oasis of the eastern desert beyond Khauran.

Alafdhal – Turanian soldier stationed in Zamboula who took Zabibi as a lover.  He was driven to madness by the drug of a jealous priest named Totrasmek.  In truth, Zabibi sought to steal a precious ring from him that bore the Star of Khorala with the ability to enslave the hearts of men, though Alafdhal was ignorant of the jewel’s power.  See Jungir Khan.

Albiona – Aquilonian countess who refused to be taken as a wife by Valerius to solidify his claim to the throne after the presumed death of King Conan at the battle of Valkia.  Valerius seized her lands and sold her henchmen into slavery.  Her persistent refusal resulted in an attempted execution in the Iron Tower by Count Thespius that was foiled by Conan when he assumed the guise of an executioner and slaughtered her captors.

Alcemides – Nemedian philosopher.

Alimane – River that formed a natural border between Zingara and Poitain.

Alkmeenon – Deserted palace of marble domes concealed in the jungle of Keshan.  Former capital of an ancient, forgotten kingdom ruled from a golden throne.

Almuric – Rebel prince of Koth whose mercenary army swept across Shem and the outlands of Stygia like a wave of destruction.  Conan and Natala were the sole survivors of Prince Almuric’s forces when an alliance of Kushites and Stygians cornered and slaughtered them on the eastern borders of Kush.  Fifteen thousand men fell to enemy archers and another fifteen thousand perished to black plague during the aftermath.  Prince Almuric himself fell with forty Stygian arrows piercing his body.  This tragic fate earned Prince Almuric’s army the nickname of “the Damned Horde.”

Altaku – Well located in the desert east of Khoraja and far south of Koth.

Altaro – Acolyte of Orastes who used black magic learned from Xaltotun to murder men in the streets of Tarantia who refused to forsake King Conan.

Amalric – Aquilonian mercenary who fought for Koth during the war between Argos and Stygia.  The combined forces of Argos and Koth outmatched Stygia, until Koth brokered a deal with its enemy and betrayed its ally.  Amalric and his companion, Conan, barely survived the decimation of Prince Zapayo’s army.  They escaped into the southern desert and fought for survival by any means, though they became separated by barbaric attackers.  While travelling with three Ghanatas across the desert, Amalric took pity upon a young woman taken captive named Lissa.  He fought and defeated all three, Gobir, Saidu, and Tilutan.  He returned her to Gazal, only for her to be abducted by the dread god Ollam-onga.  Amalric fought the beast to rescue her once again.  They fled from Gazal to Tombalku and eventually reunited with Conan.

Amalric – Nemedian noble who became a lord of Khoraja and commander of its mercenary armies until that role was transferred to Conan of Cimmeria.  Amalric led Khoraja’s lancers at the battle of the Pass of Shamla.  He successfully led the charge to outflank Natohk’s forces, though he himself was speared through the thigh by battle’s end.

Amalric – Baron of Tor.  Nemedian noble of immense wealth who saved the priest Orastes from execution.  He committed his formidable assets to support Tarascus’s rise to power while conspiring with Valerius and his allies against the kingdoms of Nemedia and Aquilonia.  Amalric was impaled during the battle of the Valley of Lions when he charged against King Conan’s knights and fell upon the lance of Pallantides.

Amalrus – King of Ophir during the life of Conan.  His queen possessed a ring with the Star of Khorala capable of enslaving the hearts of men until it was stolen and ultimately discovered by Turanian soldier Alafdhal.  King Amalrus ultimately betrayed Aquilonia after allying with Strabonus, King of Koth, to ambush King Conan’s cavalry.  He led the forces of Ophir in alliance with Ophirians and Shemites to defeat King Conan at the plain of Shamu.  Conan was imprisoned and believed dead prior to the massive siege of Shamar by Amalrus and his allies, though the triumphant return of the King of Aquilonia marked his doom.  Amalrus was slain on the battlefield by Prospero before Conan’s army won the day.

Amboola – Gallah warrior who was imprisoned by the maddened princess Tananda and slaughtered by the snouted beast in the Red Tower of Shumballa.

Amir – Title for an Afghuli lord.

Amir Jehun Pass – Westward pass through the Himelian mountains claimed as Afghuli country and named for an Afghuli lord.

Amir Khurum – Legendary Afghuli lord who ruled from Khurum until it was conquered by the Wazuli.  Amir Khurum was a famed sword master of the tulwar.

Amra the Lion – See Conan

Anakim – Shemitish city.

Angareb – Beds used in southern Hyborian nations including Kush and the Black Kingdoms.

Anu – Deity primarily worshipped in Aquilonia.

Aphaka – Oasis of the Kharamun desert beyond Shem’s borders.  A shrine to the Stygian god, Set, was built at the oasis.

Aphaki – Shemitish race originating from Aphaka who ventured to the southern desert to found the kingdom of Tombalku.  They worshipped Jhil as opposed to their counterparts who worshipped Ajujo.  They formed the dominant caste of Tombalku, though they constituted a minority of its people.  For this reason, they shared power in a two king system.

Aquilonia – Central region of Hyboria fashioned into a decadent empire of many provinces united under a single banner.  At its height it held power over Brythunia, Argos, Zingara, Ophir, Zamora, and the Shemite nations.  It treated these once independent kingdoms as subjugated provinces like the long faithful Poitan and Gunderland.  Known for its prodigious wealth, disciplined armies, and sagacious philosophers, Aquilonia was widely regarded to be the greatest of the Hyborian kingdoms.  It had ancestral rivalries with the Pictish Wilderness, Cimmeria, Nemedia, and Stygia but was never able to conquer them due to the combative fortitude of the former and the guile (and tribute) of the latter.  Its capital was the city of Tamar where King Namedides ruled during the life of Conan before he was strangled and his throne usurped by the barbarian who cleverly conquered the kingdom from within by inciting the rebellion of Poitain.  Tamar was rechristened Tarantia nearly a decade after the death of its former king.  The kingdom thrived under King Conan’s rule for many years.  Ultimately, its abandonment of the Bossonians and their continual struggle with the Picts resulted in their withdrawal from Aquilonian society.  Without the Bossonian archers, its armies lost critical battles to Cimmeria which led to the ultimate downfall of Aquilonia.

Aram Baksh – Owner of a mysterious tavern in a dilapidated corner of Zamboula where all guests who entered vanished from the world and their property later found at auction.  Conan discovered that Aram Baksh took his customers’ money and possessions and fed them to cannibal slaves in the dead of night.  Conan avenged himself and countless victims on Aram Baksh when he slit the man’s throat and fed him to his own cannibal slaves.

Aratus – Brythunian buccaneer of the Red Brotherhood who sailed as lieutenant under Sergius of Khrosha.  When his captain was killed in single combat with Conan, Aratus attacked the barbarian in an attempt to slay him but was prevented by Ivanos who argued that Conan was their rightful captain.  The pirates camped under the iron statues during the night, only to discover that the moonlight brought them to life.  Many perished to these uncanny demons, including Aratus.

Arbanus – General of the Kothian army under King Strabonus.  He fought at the plain of Shamu where King Conan and his knights of Aquilonia were delivered a tragic defeat.  At the later battle before the gates of Shamar, Arbanus faced the triumphant return of the forces of King Conan and was slain by an arrow before being trampled beneath his war-horse.

Argos – Nation south of Aquilonia and bordered on the west by Zingara and on the east by Shem.  While Argos was a region of meager military might, it was also one of bountiful wealth.  Its thriving seaport city of Messantia was renowned for its commercial prosperity.

Argus – Trade craft captained by Argosian merchant named Tito with a crew of two dozen men.  While leaving port, it was boarded by Conan who evaded punishment by the city guard for slaying a judge in the middle of court after refusing to betray his comrade.

Arideus – Squire to King Tarascus of Nemedia.

Arpello – Prince and provincial governor of Pellia, an Aquilonian nobleman who King Strabonus and King Amalrus supported as the rightful heir to the throne of Aquilonia.  When rumor spread that King Conan was dead, Arpello swiftly announced himself ruler of Tamar.  The kingdom succumbed to mass riots and hysteria under Arpello’s rule, but his reign was short-lived as King Conan returned to Tamar and cast Arpello to his death from one of the city’s great turrets.

Arus – Watchman of Kallian Publico’s Temple, a museum and antique house located in the city of Numalia in Nemedia.

Arus – Nemedian priest responsible for reforming the Picts into an empire at the dusk of the Hyborian Age.  He introduced worship of Mitra to the wild men as well as the innovations of mining, smelting, and working ore.  He befriended the Pictish warlord Gorm who eagerly exploited the knowledge bestowed by the Nemedian priest.  Arus, a devout pacifist, was dismayed to find the knowledge he bestowed upon the Picts was merely used to elevate their warfare.  He realized his mistake too late as he was murdered by a drunken Pict.

Ascalante – Count of Thune and Aquilonian nobleman and conspirer against King Conan.  Ascalante’s reavers attacked a caravan in Koth and seized the Stygian Thoth-Amon as a slave.  He devised a plot to busy the guards and soldiers of Aquilonia in order to assassinate its king.  Leading twenty conspirators, Ascalante failed to murder the dauntless warrior.  While Conan decimated their numbers, Ascalante was butchered by a giant baboon summoned by his vengeful slave Thoth-Amon.

Asgalun – Capital of ancient Pelishtim.

Asgard – Northern nation of Hyboria inhabited by a yellow-haired, hardy people known as the Aesir.

Ashtoreth – Deity worshipped in Shem.

Askalon – Ancient kingdom located in the region that became known as the city-states of Shem.

Askhaurian dynasty – Ruling bloodline of Khauran whose first queen trafficked with a fiend of darkness and cursed their descendants to bear the mark of the witch.  “Every century a witch shall be born” was the curse that doomed each child named Salome to exile and death until the twin sister of Taramis.

Askia – Witch-finder of the Tombalku.

Asshuri – White-robed, mailed nomad clans of the sister cities of Shem.  These respected warriors were well-renowned during the age of Conan.  Many of their number allied with Natohk’s army during his war against Khoraja.  Asshuri armor also adorned the Shemitish mercenary army that served Constantius during his reign over the kingdom of Khauran with the imposter Salome.

Astreas – Nemedian philosopher who travelled into far eastern Hyboria and wrote letters to his friend and fellow-philosopher of events in the region of Khauran detailing the rule of the apparent Queen Taramis.

Asura – Religious cult forced to worship in secret throughout Hyboria for fear of persecution by followers of the dominant religion of Mitra.  Priests of Asura including the enigmatic Hadrathus referred to themselves as seekers below aspect of illusion.  Upon the time of their death, a member of the cult of Asura would be placed on a “pilgrim boat” and rowed by a slave down the Khoratas river.  Hyborian Asurans descended from Vendhya beyond the sea of Vilayet and the Himelian mountains, where the religion of Asura remained the dominant belief system for King Bhunda Chand and the palace of Ayodhya.

Atali – Female goddess of red-yellow hair and blue-grey eyes who was the daughter of Ymir.  Wearing nothing but light gossamer veil, she dances across the snows of the north to tempt warriors from their battlefields to certain death by the icy axes of her Frost Giant brothers.

Atalis – Philosopher and rogue who lived in the mysterious city of Yaralet.

Athemides – A young student from Aquilonia who incited riots against Prince Arpello after the usurper seized control of Tamar.

Athicus – Prison guard of Corinth who was paid by Murilo to aid in Conan’s escape.

Atlantis –Pre-Cataclysmic civilization of a proud and strong people.  The Atlanteans inhabited a small continent between the Pictish Islands and the large Thurian continent.  Atlantis sank beneath the ocean during the Cataclysm.  These people came into conflict with the Picts during the mass migrations resulting from the Cataclysm and prior to the lesser Cataclysm in the Pictish-Atlantean Wars.  Its surviving descendants primarily settled in northern Hyboria to become northern races including the Aesir, Vanir, and Cimmerians.

Attains – City in Aquilonia and home to the castle of Pallantides.  Pallantides was taken there after suffering severe wounds at the battle of Valkia.

Attalus – Southeastern province of Aquilonia.

Attelius – Aquilonian baron who marched on Thandara only to have his army decimated at the Little Wilderness.

Ayodhya – Capital city of the kingdom of Vendhya.

Aztrias Petanius – Nephew to the governor of Numalia in Nemedia who hired Conan to steal a Zamorian goblet from Kallian Publico’s Temple.  He was beheaded by the Cimmerian for refusing to admit his true intentions or to defend Conan’s innocence regarding the murder of Kallian Publico.

Baal-pteor – Strangler of Yajur from Yota-pong in Kosala.  Man of enormous frame who served his master, high priest Totrasmek, in Zamboula.  He was a master of illusions and used these skills to guard his master against Conan.  Baal-pteor attempted to strangle Conan in a test of brute strength, but he was little match for the barbarian who tore the strangler’s neck as if it were that of a Cimmerian bull.

Bajujh – King of the tribe and village of the Bakalah.  He allied with Conan, war-chief of the Bamula, only to be betrayed and beheaded by the barbarian who sought the captive Livia for himself.

Bakalah – Warrior tribe of the Black Kingdoms ruled by King Bajujh.

Bakhariot – Irakzai city in the Hyrkanian continent.

Balthus – Frontiersman from Tauran who was rescued from a stalking Pict by Conan in the forests of the Pictish Wilderness.  Balthus joined Conan on a quest to assassinate the Pict Wizard Zogar Sag.   Though their scouting party numbered twelve men in total, nine were slaughtered by the Picts and another by a Saber-tooth tiger.  Conan rescued Balthus from death at the fangs of Zogar Sag’s Ghost Snake and fled with the frontiersman into the forest.  Inspired by Conan’s fortitude, Balthus led the noble stray dog Slasher in evacuating settlers from their cabins during the sacking of Fort Tuscelan.  Armed with a bow and quiver of arrows and a hand axe, Balthus sacrificed his life to guard their retreat.

Bamula – Warrior tribe of the Black Kingdoms.

Barachan Isles – Also known as Baracha Isles.  Small chain of islands off the southern coast of Zingara and home to a thriving culture of piracy.  One of the great pirate cities of the Barachan Isles was Tortage.  The Barachan pirates raided the Hyborian coastline from Zingara to Argos.

Bel – God of all thieves worshipped throughout Hyboria but principally in Zamora.  Legend told that he was originally born in ancient Shumir and claimed by the Shemites.  With curled beard and impish wise eyes, he went out upon the world to steal gems from the kings of old.

Belesa – Lady of Zingara and niece to Count Valenso who accompanied him during his self-imposed exile to Korvela Bay.

Bêlit – Queen of the Black Coast.  Bêlit was a Shemite woman of ivory skin and hair black as Stygian night.  She claimed to be descended from the kings of Askalon.  Bêlit was captain of the pirate ship Tigress, which sailed along the coast from Zingara to the Black Kingdoms raiding ships and villages for plunder.  While boarding a trade ship called the Argus, Bêlit was impressed by one crewmember who fought ferociously against overwhelming odds.  She took him into her crew and he became known as Amra the Lion.  While seeking treasure deep in the Black Kingdoms along the Zarkheba River, Bêlit and her crew found an ancient city guarded by a malevolent winged-ape creature.  After the crew of the Tigress was slaughtered by the monstrous hyenas of this winged-ape, Bêlit’s corpse was found hanging by a noose of a jeweled necklace from the yardarm of her own ship.  After she and the crew were avenged, she was set upon the Tigress and cast off for one final voyage upon a ship made funeral pyre.

Beloso – Captain of Valbroso’s guard who stole the Heart of Ahriman after Count Velbroso succumbed to the venom sting protecting the chest that housed the gem.  Beloso was pursued by King Conan into Messantia where he was found dead with the black hand of Set upon his chest in Servio’s house.

Belverus – Capital city of Nemedia.

Bhalkhana – Prized stallions valued for their pure breeding.

Bhunda Chand – King of Vendhya during the life of Conan who was killed by necromantic powers of Khemsa and the Black Seers.

BȊt-Yakin – Ancient Pelishtim who wrote of his travels to the valley of Alkmeenon in a manuscript interred with his mummified remains on the cliffs overlooking the valley.  He resided for a time with his servants in the palace where he mastered the art of deceiving the Keshani through the illusion of speaking as their oracle, Yelaya.  His servants remained long after his death; ravenous monstrosities eager to devour anyone who set foot within its walls.

Black Coast – Coastal region of the Black Kingdoms notorious for its pirate activity.

Black Corsairs – Pirates serving under Amra the Lion and the Queen of the Black Coast who raided ships and tribal villages along the coastal regions spanning from Zingara to the Black Kingdoms.  They seized ivory, ostrich feathers, and precious metals which were then sold in port cities like Messantia in Argos.  Fear of the Black Corsairs was felt nowhere greater than in the kingdom of Stygia.

Black Dragons – Elite military unit under the command of Pallantides of Aquilonia.

Black Kingdoms – Contested lands south of Stygia ruled by various tribes.

Black lotus – Black, exotic flower that blossoms in the lost jungles of southern Hyboria and Khitai.  It had a potent scent capable of bringing death-like sleep and powerful hallucinations to its victims, though its juice could also be used to make a powerful toxin capable of instantly killing any who inhaled its vapors.

Black Ring – Conclave of wizards who willfully seek nightmares of the Black lotus hallucinations.  They primarily live in domes of Sabatea in Stygia, though their rightful master is the supreme sorcerer of the king.  During the life of Conan, this title belonged to Thoth-Amon.

Black River – River that spans from the Western Sea through the vast expanse of the Pictish Wilderness.  It is said that the forests beyond the black river are thick with swamp demons that howl like damned souls in the night.

Black Seers – Himelian rulers of Mount Yimsha and masters of powerful necromantic sorcery.  They tasked Khemsa with assassinating the king of Vendhya and sought to abduct the Devi Yasmina for King Yezdigerd of Turan, though the master of Yimsha claimed to serve his own interests.  The Black Seers perished when Conan shattered the crystal globe at the heart of their fortress.

Black Stranger – See Valenso.

Book of Skelos – See Skelos.

Border Kingdom – Region that marked the location of a great and savage battle between the feuding Aquilonians and Hyperboreans.

Bori – Legendary chief of the savages who travelled to northern regions of the main continent after the Cataclysm.  The chief was so revered by his people that they honored him after his death as a deity.  Bori was worshipped by the Gundermen prior to their absorption into Aquilonia when conversion to the worship of Mitra was common.  It is from Bori that the Hyborians or Hybori derive their name.

Bossonian marches – Territory separating the kingdom of Aquilonia from the untamed forests of the Pictish Wilderness.  The region was annexed by Aquilonia and used as a staging ground for colonization efforts into the wilderness beyond.  Filled with fortified villages and hardy people with great skill in archery, the Bossonians buffered the Aquilonians from the dangers of Pictish raiding parties.  Bossonian archers were frequently called upon by the armies of Aquilonia during times of war.

The Bowl – Sarcophagus that was cylindrical in shape.  It measured four feet high and three feet in circumference.  This ancient relic was sent by Thoth-Amon and his Stygian priests to murder Kalenthes of Hanumar with the demonic creature that dwelt within:  one of the horrid Children of Set.

Bragi – Vanir warrior who led an assault against Wulfhere’s Aesir warriors to the mutual annihilation of both forces.

Bragorus – King of ancient Nemedia who attempted a failed invasion of Aquilonia nine hundred years before the life of Conan.

Brant Drago’s son – Democratically elected governor of Thandara.

Brocas – Baron of Torh who ruled over Conawaga and attempted to seize the town of Thenitea when Lord Thasperas withdrew his men from Schohira to aid Conan’s army in Aquilonia.  Brocas was a loyalist for King Namedides during the rebellion of Poitain.

Brythunia – Nation in Hyboria south of Hyperborea and north of Nemedia and Corinthia.  Brythunia was a land frequently raided by its stronger neighbors and though it was a lesser kingdom than the likes of Aquilonia and Nemedia in regards to its intellectual or militaristic value, Brythunia still ranked among Hyborias most civilized nations.

Bull Ape – Massive apes thought sacred by Picts as the hallowed brood of the gorilla-god Gullah.

Cataclysm – Disastrous event that brought turmoil to the Pre-Cataclysmic world in a torrent of earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and floods.  During the Cataclysm Atlantis and Lemuria sank beneath the ocean and the Pictish Islands were heaved up to form the mountain peaks of a new continent.  Entire cities and even empires themselves were razed as the Cataclysm and succeeding lesser Cataclysm reshaped the world and marked the beginning of the Hyborian Age.

Chagas – Ruling caste of the city of Shumballa in Kush.  The Chagas were of Stygian descent and honored such cultural traditions as the worship of Set, the serpent god.

Chakan – Ape-like, talon-clawed beasts that dwell in the forests of the Pictish Wilderness.

Chelkus – House of scientists and noblemen in Ophir.

Children of Set – The offspring of the vile arch-demon god worshipped in Stygia.  These entities are described as having human heads of statuesque beauty atop black, limbless bodies like those of massive serpents.

Chunder Shan – Vendhyan governer of Peshkhauri.

Cimmeria – Northern nation of Hyboria.  It is said that Cimmerians were a bloody race born with a sword in their hand.  In truth, s descended from Atlanteans who advanced from contact with outsiders but were never conquered by them.  Cimmerian religion centered on a gloomy god named Crom who ruled a pantheon of lesser gods from a great mountain.   afterlife was a realm of clouds and wind where spirits wandered for eternity.

City of Thieves – City of Zamora where the Tower of the Elephant once stood.

Commoria – Ancient kingdom of the Thurian age predating the Great Cataclysm.

Conajohara – Great forest and site of an Aquilonian colony at the border of the Bossonian marches and the Pictish Wilderness in a region known as the Westermarck.  The Picts were displaced from this region by the Aquilonian settlement, but they endeavored to regain Conajohara and ultimately did so after the destruction of Fort Tuscelan.

Conan – the Cimmerian.  Son of a blacksmith who claimed to have been born in the midst of a battle.  A notorious warrior even in youth, Conan’s early battles included joining the horde that sacked Venarium when he was fourteen years of age.  He lived his life freely travelling across the lands of Hyboria and beyond, braving nearly every desert, jungle, and sea.  In his youth he was a thief and a reaver.  In his adulthood he became a pirate, a mercenary, and a respected warrior.  He became a Barachan pirate, a corsair called Amra the Lion, a kozak, and a hetman.  In his elder years he served as a warlord and general of armies before ultimately journeying to Aquilonia to challenge the cruel king Namedides by inciting provinces like Poitain to revolt.  He strangled the king upon his throne and crowned himself ruler of Aquilonia and appointed allies like Prospero from Poitain to his court.  While reigning as king, Conan kept many royal beauties from Poitain, Zamora, Zingara, Hyrkania, and Brythunia who knew not brutality despite their station.  His taxes were fairer and his borders protected.  Several plots of treachery rose against him from envious parties from Aquilonia and its neighbors during this time, though King Conan bested each challenger and avenged himself against all attempted usurpers.  The adventures of Conan across the Hyborian continent and beyond have entered into legend.

Conawaga – Largest and richest province of the Westermarck ruled by Baron Brocas of Torh.  During the rebellion of Poitain, Conawaga allied with King Namedides.

Constantius – the Falcon.  Warleader of the Free Companions who was exiled as a criminal from his homeland of Koth.  He brought a mercenary army of Shemites to the city walls of Khauran where he allied with the usurper Salome against the throne of Taramis.  He captured the captain of the Queen’s guard, a Cimmerian named Conan, and crucified him upon the tree of death one mile beyond the city limits.  Conan was rescued by Zuagir tribesmen and Olgerd Vladislav.  He raised an army from these Zuagirs and marched upon Khauran in order to free it from the false queen Salome.  All of the Shemite army was slain by Conan’s order save Constantius, who was crucified upon the tree death and left to the vultures.

Corinth – The capital city of the kingdom of Corinthia.

Corinthia – Hyborian kingdom east of Nemedia and Ophir and west of Zamora.  It was ruled by a king during the life of Conan who was merely a figurehead for the true ruler of Corinthia:  the Red Priest Nabonidus.  Its capital was the sprawling city of Corinth.

Coyaga – Town in Schohira ten miles north of Ogha Creek where the army of Brocas mobilized against the disloyal factions in the Westermarck for King Namedides.

The Crawler – Monstrous creature summoned by the Xotalanc wizards to devour the Tecuhltli.  It writhed and slithered through the chambers of Xuchotl and was chilling to the touch, though it was ultimately slain by Conan.

Crom – Chief god of Cimmerian worship.  He was of a dark race of beings who ruled over a sunless realm of eternal mist.  Crom sent doom and death from a great mountain, caring not for the suffering of the weak.

Ctesphon – King of Stygia during the life of Conan.  He ruled from the city of Luxur with the guidance of his supreme sorcerer, Thoth-Amon.

Dagon – Deity worshipped in southern nations including Keshan and the Zembabwei.

Dagon – Capital city of Dagonia, which was named for the deity worshipped in southern regions of Hyboria.  The resurrection of Khosatral Khel enabled the entity’s magic to return Dagon and its people to a shadow of its former glory until he was slain by Conan and his spells ended.

Dagonia – Island in the Vilayet sea and home to a primitive civilization until it was discovered by the entity Khosatral Khel.  He bestowed knowledge and power upon the people of Dagonia and was worshipped as a god.  The Dagonian civilization enslaved the Yuetshi and held ritual sacrifices of this subdued people in honor of Khosatral Khel for a generation.  The island was overthrown by the revolting Yuetshi and renamed Xapur in the generations following its collapse.

Dagoth Hill – Mysterious, pre-human settlement that exists only as ruins during the life of Conan.

Dagozai – Lesser tribes of the Afghuli and Irakzai regions of the Hyborian continent bordering Hyrkania.

The Damned Horde – See Almuric.

Darfar – Savage realm south of Stygia where cannibalistic tribes were ravaged by neighboring empires and taken as slaves.  Men of Darfar sharpened their teeth to facilitate their feasting.

Daura – Priest of the Tombalku.

Demetrio – Chief of the Inquisitorial Council of Numalia.  He attempted to convict Conan of the murder of Kallian Publico and received a crippling leg injury by the Cimmerian.

Demetrio – Captain of the Venturer merchant ship out of Messantia.  Demetrio attempted to take an unconscious King Conan as his slave.  However, Conan rallied the slaves and seized the vessel in a mutiny that ended the lives of Demetrio and his loyal shipmates.

Derketa – Kushite Queen of the Dead.  The purplish-crimson apples of Derketa are thus named because a single bite can kill a man in an instant.  The deity was worshipped in neighboring realms as Derketo and associated with pleasure and sensuality.

Derketo – the Dusky Goddess.  A goddess of pleasure and sensuality worshipped in southern nations including Keshan and Zembabwei, though originating from the Shemitish pantheon.  The deity was worshipped in neighboring Kush as Derketa and associated with death and poison.

Devi – Royal title for the matriarch of Vendhya.

Diadem of the Giant-Kings – Crown belonging to the race that dwelt in what would later be referred to as Stygia.  Legend says that a single jewel from the diadem is worth all the jewels of the modern world.

Diana – Nemedian girl captured from a slave vessel of Argos.  She was acquired by Tuthmes for the purpose of infiltrating the king of Kush.

Dion – Fat, dim-witted baron of Attalus and conspirer against King Conan.  While plotting with Thoth-Amon, Dion revealed his “ring of good fortune” to the sorcerer.  Thoth-Amon promptly recognized it as the Serpent Ring of Set and murdered the baron in order to reclaim the charm and his power.

Dionus – Prefect of the Numalian police.  His ear was severed after attempting to seize Conan during ’s failed theft of the Zamorian goblet in Kallian Publico’s Temple.

Dirk Strom’s son – Interim commandant of Fort Kwanyara in the absence of Jon Storm’s son.

Djebal – Zuagir rider allied to Olgerd Vladislav.

Dragon – Gargantuan saurian beasts known for their rows of dripping yellow tusks.  They can survive many days without food or water.  It was rumored that only one of the beasts remains in the jungles beyond Xuchotl.

Elephant’s Heart – A jewel capable of granting its owner immense power.  During the life of Conan , the jewel belonged to Yara the priest in the City of Thieves in Zamora who dwelled in the Tower of the Elephant.

El Shebbeh – Inner city districts where dwelled the upper castes of Shumballa or Chagas.

Emilius Scavonus – Strongest patrician in the province of central Aquilonia which included Tarantia.  He defied the rule of Valerius and was burned with his plantation for refusing to show allegiance to the new king.

Enaro – Kallian Publico’s charioteer.

Epemitreus – the Sage.  An Aquilonian mystic and holy figure to the cult of Mitra, Epemitreus lived fifteen hundred years before the life of Conan.  He once battled the arch-fiend Set and helped drive him into the mysterious southern regions of Hyboria.  Epemitreus is said to dwell in the black heart of Golamira and sends his ghost forth to aid Aquilonia in times of need.  A vision of Epemitreus came to King Conan to warn him of the powerful sorcerer Thoth-Amon and to enchant his sword with the etched symbol of a phoenix to aid in defeating a baboon-like demon summoned by the sorcerer.

Epeus – King of ancient Aquilonia who lived nine hundred years prior to Conan.

Erlik – Chief god worshipped in Turan.

Eruk – One of the sister cities of Shem.

Forest Demon – See Swamp Demon.

Fort Ghori – Turanian outpost on the southeastern edge of the Vilayet.

Fort Kwanyara – Southernmost outpost of Schohira in the Westermarck built beside Knife Creek.

Fort Thandara – Isolated outpost on Warhorse River in southernmost region of the Westermarck.  After Conajohara was overrun following the sacking of Fort Tuscelan, Fort Thandara’s population swelled from influx of settlers and became a thriving district known as the Free Province of Thandara.  Because of their need for security from constant invasion, each cabin in Thandara was said to be as a fort unto itself.  Thandara was governed by the democratically elected Brant Drago’s son.  When Conan gathered a massive army to overthrow King Namedides of Aquilonia, Thandara pledged its army to the usurper.

Fort Tuscelan – Aquilonian outpost on the eastern border of Black River in the Pictish Wilderness.  It was stormed by an army of several hundred Picts under Zogar Sag and burned to ashes.

Freebooter – Term for a Zingaran buccaneer.

Free Companions – See kozaki.

Frost Giants – Brothers of Atali and sons of Ymir, these massive figures wear white scaled armor and wield axes covered in ice.  Icicles cling to their beards and snow flecks the locks of their hair.  They slay the doomed warriors lured by the temptation of their sister, Atali.

Galacus – First mate aboard the Red Hand under captain Strom who was trusted with the map to the treasure of Tranacos.  Conan slew him on the beach.  While he lay dying, Galacus attempte to swallow the map.  Conan claimed it for leverage against his enemies.

Galbro – Zingaran seneschal to Count Valenso.

Gallahs – Native inhabitants of the nation of Kush characterized by their black skin pigmentation.  The Gallahs of Kush worshipped Jullah rather than the Stygian god, Set.

Galparan – Village on the river Shirki north of the village of Tanasul in northern Aquilonia.

Galzai – Villagers who dwell in the Himelian crags beyond the Wazuli settlements.

Gault Hagar’s son – Settler of Conajohara who moved with his family near Fort Thandara after Fort Tuscelan was razed by Picts.  He served with the forces of Thandara in battling Pictish invasion and shot an arrow through the shaman Teyanoga.  He then travelled to Schohira to deliver the news that the army of Thandara would support Conan’s conquest of Aquilonia.

Gazal – City of fallen stone and breached walls built upon an oasis in the desert.  An unblemished, red spire stood above the ruin of the city.   The Gazali descended from southern region of Koth where they sought to continue the worship of Mitra.  They migrated to the desert and built the oasis city nine hundred years prior to the life of Conan, but their slaves revolted and abandoned them.  The city remained in isolation when the horrifying god Ollam-onga descended upon them and started to feast upon its people.

Gebal – Shemite slave owned by wealthy merchant of Messantia named Publio.  He was slain by Khitan sorcery when trying to protect his master from Valerius’s assassins.

Gebbrelo – Servant of Count Valenso on Korvela Bay.

Ghanara – Prostitutes in Zamboula.

Ghanata – Desert dwelling robber tribe from the southeastern region of Stygia bordering Kush.

Ghanta knife – Weapon with a curved, steel blade borne by fierce desert men south of Stygia.

Ghazan – Cheap wine sold in desert cities and caravans.

Ghaznavi – Turanian counsellor to lord Jehungir Agha.

Ghor – Afghuli stronghold beyond the Himelian mountains.

Ghost Snake – Ancient monster summoned by Zogar Sag in the great forest beyond the Black River.  Nearly the size of a man when standing for its head to strike, these reptiles were said to glide into huts at night and devour entire families.  A similar reptile lurked in the pits of Tsotha-lanti’s palace in Khorshemish and was named Satha, the old one.

Ghost Swamp – The heart of Pict civilization in the Pictish Wilderness where a great wizard who ruled over the dark magic of all the shamans was said to have lived.

Ghouls – Name given to the creatures that live in forested hills marking the Zingaran – Argossean border.  Anthropoid in shape, these ghouls were gray in color and had black, unblinking eyes.  They fed upon human flesh and were said to descend from an ancient city lost in the forests upon the hills.

Ghulistan – also known as Afghulistan.  Far eastern nation bordering Vendhya and frequent rival to its powerful neighbor.  Its tribesmen were called Afghulis.

Gilzan – Shemitish henchman of Jehungir Agha.

Gitara – Maid to Devi Yasmina of Vendhya who sought to betray her mistress to aid her lover, Khemsa.  She was hypnotically compelled to commit suicide by the Black Seers while these sorcerers battled Khemsa within the Himelian crags.

Gobir – Ghanata who was slain by Amalric for his intentions with the captive Lissa.

Golamira – Mountain in Aquilonia.  A black stone corridor was carved into the heart of the mountain by unknown hands.  Inside lies the tomb of Epemitreus guarded by Phoenixes of sculpted stone.  This secret is closely kept by acolytes of the cult of Mitra.

Golden Leopard – Great cat of ancient Hyboria which went extinct a thousand years prior to the life of Conan.

Golden Lotus – Rare flower found scarcely in Hyboria.  When its juices were distilled, they created a drought that brought clarity of mind and served as a cure for madness.

Goralian hills – Chain of raised topography overlooking the Shirki river in northern Aquilonia.  The Valley of Lions leads up into the Goralian hills, a site of many battles over the course of Aquilonian history.  The highest of the Goralian hills was called the King’s Altar.

Gorm – the old.  Aesir warrior of Niord’s tribe.

Gorm – Pict warlord who exploited the knowledge of a Nemedian priest named Arus to advance Pictish civilization and form the first Pictish Empire.  He conquered enormous swaths of Hyboria after unifying the Picts as chief of chiefs.  Among his greatest achievements was overthrowing Aquilonia as an old man.  He lived to be nearly a hundred years old when he was slain by a chief of the Nemedian Aesir named Hialmar.

Gorulga – High priest of Keshan.  He and his fellow priests are slain by the servants of BȊt-Yakin in the subterranean caverns of Alkmeenon.

Goyaga – Settlement in Schohira that saw skirmishing and unrest during Conan’s assaults against Aquilonia.

Gray Ape – Massive creatures with prominent yellow tusks from the forests of mountainous eastern shores of the Vilayet sea.  One of these beasts dwelled on the Isle of Iron Statues in the Vilayet sea and pounced upon Conan while he was escaping in the night from capture by pirates.  Another was taken to the pits of Belverus and released by Tarascus in hopes that it may end King Conan’s life while he was imprisoned there by the sorcerer Xaltotun.  On both occasions, Conan was able to overcome the beasts through brute strength and a sharp blade.

Gray lotus – Powerfully toxic plant found in the Swamps of the Dead beyond the land of Khitai.  The effect turns men rabid so those who do not die turn viciously against one another in fits of cannibalistic madness.

Gromel – Bossonian commander of the Black Legion armies of Aquilonia and conspirer against King Conan.  He was the first to fall under Conan’s sword during the assassination attempt led by Ascalante.

Grondar – Easternmost kingdom of the Thurian continent during the Pre-Cataclysmic Age.

Gullah – Gorilla-god known as “the Hairy One who lives on the moon.”  He is worshipped by the children of Jhebbal Sag who believe the bull apes to be Gullah’s sacred avatars on Earth.

Gunderland – Province of Aquilonia peopled by the wild Gundermen.  Gunderland was engaged in ancestral conflicts with nearby Cimmeria, and after its integration into the kingdom of Aquilonia it was used as a launching point for conquests into northern realms of Hyboria.  These invasions ultimately failed as the Cimmerian clans united to secure their borders against the armies of Aquilonia.

Gundermen – Peoples of Gunderland known for their hardy and wild nature.

Gurashah – Valley on the Turanian controlled region of the Himelian mountains.

Gwahlur – King of Darkness slain by the gods of Keshan.  Its teeth were like jewels of unrivaled beauty and value.  The ancestors of Keshan removed the Teeth of Gwahlur and concealed them in the palace of Alkmeenon.

Gwarunga – Keshani priest who encouraged the worship of the oracle of Alkmeenon, despite his intentions to manipulate his people with the aid of Zargheba and Thutmekri.  He was struck down by Conan for his betrayal.

Gwawela – Pictish village and home to the wizard Zogar Sag.  It was situated beside the Black River in the Pictish Wilderness.

Hadrathus – Priest of Asura based in Tarantia who helped rescue King Conan and Countess Albiona during their escape from the Iron Tower.  Hadrathus later aided in the Aquilonian revolution against Valerius when he received the Heart of Ahriman after King Conan’s quest to retrieve the gem.  He used it to amplify his magic and counter Xaltotun’s spells during the battle of the Valley of Lions.  Hadrathus used the gem to return Xaltotun to a mummified state before bringing the Heart of Ahriman back to the temple of Mitra in Tarantia.

Hakon Strom’s son – Ranger tasked with securing Fort Kwanyara by his brother, interim commandant Dirk Strom’s son.

The Hall – Estate of Lord Valerian in western Schohira.

Hanuman – the accursed.  God of simian aspect worshipped by desert peoples of Kharamun but detested by Stygia and Turan alike.  His temples as that in Zamboula featured a single statue of black marble built to deify him at their center.

Hanumar – City in the region of Kharamun.

Heart of Ahriman – Precious stone rumored to have been either the heart of a god or a star that fell from the sky.  It appeared like a ball of living fire.  This powerful gem was used by the sorcerer of ancient Acheron named Xaltotun.  Legend said that it was kept by Xaltotun primarily to prevent others from using it against him.  It was stolen from him by barbarians in his first life.  The immense power of the gem was used three thousand years later by the priest Orastes to raise the corpse of Xaltotun from death.  Xaltotun kept the gem close until fear grew in his allies and drove Tarascus to have it stolen away from him and delivered south.

Heimdul – Vanir warrior defeated by Conan.

Hetman – Title for a clan leader of the kozaki.

Hialmar – Chief of Nemedian Aesir at the dusk of the Hyborian Age who slew the great Pictish conqueror, Gorm.

Himelia – Mountainous region peopled by hillmen tribes located far to the east in Vendhya.  One of its prominent peaks was Mount Yimsha, where dwelled the esoteric order of the Black Seers.

Horsa – Aesir warrior of Niord’s tribe.

Hyboria – The Hyborians or Hybori were savages who travelled north after the Cataclysm.  Their name derived from their worship of Bori, a tribal chief who ascended through legends to godhood after leading his tall, vigorous, and warlike people in their time of despair.  The first Hyborian kingdom was the northern nation of Hyperborea, though Hyborian civilization was pushed southwards across the continent by threatening advances of blond savages in the far north.

Hyperborea – First Hyborian kingdom formed by worshippers of Bori.  It was known for attaining an early mastery of stonework and constructing fortresses of boulders.  It was overthrown by fair-haired tribes of the far north, though the new kingdom built upon the ruins of the old retained this designation.

Hyrkania – Continent to the east of Hyboria.  Hyrkania was originally settled by the upper caste ancestors of Stygia.  When the Cataclysm forced the massive migration of the Lemurians to Hyrkania, the natives enslaved the migrants.  After generations of slavery, the Lemurians revolted against their masters and forced their migration west to found the kingdom of Stygia.  The Hyrkanian continent included Turan, Iranistan, and Ghulistan.  The peoples of each nation were often referred to as “Hyrkanians” and the Vilayet Sea itself was called a “Hyrkanian Pond.”  One custom shared by these nations involved the veiling of their women.

Ibis – God worshipped in Hyboria who has fought the arch-demon god Set since the first dawn of the Earth.

Ilbars River – River by the steppes of Turan marking the final battle site of a large band of five thousand kozaki who were slain by the cavalry of Shah Amurath.

Irakzai – Nation north of Vendhya and the Himelian mountains on the Hyrkanian continent.

Iranistan – Nation north of Vendhya and the Himelian mountains on the Hyrkanian continent.

Irem – The steed of Shah Amurath.  It was called the fastest horse west of the Vilayet.

Iron Tower – In prior centuries the Iron Tower served as the citadel of Aquilonia.  It was set apart from the more recently constructed citadel and used in the time of Conan of Cimmeria as a prison.  Conan was imprisoned there by King Namedides and became familiar with the edifice before ultimately strangling the ruler of Aquilonia and seizing the crown as his own.

Ishtar – Chief goddess worshipped by the people of such nations as Koth, Khauran, and Shem.  The religion of Ishtar was widely regarded for its extravagance.  Ishtar’s temples were ornately decorated as the god herself was said to inhabit the statues built in her honor.

Isle of the Black Ones – Island in the western ocean far beyond the Barachan Isles.  This island was described as a mysterious haunt of forgotten crypts and hieroglyph-carven gold in the pages of the Book of Skelos.  The island was dotted with circular, walled courts with towers at their center.  It was populated by abnormally large, black creatures of humanoid shape that used the magic of a strange pool of otherworldly liquid to turn men and beasts into shrunken, petrified idols.

Isle of Iron Statues – Uninhabited island in the Vilayet sea dotted with the ruins of an ancient civilization.  In the great, columned hall stood massive iron statues in the likeness of men.  Olivia and Conan escaped from Hyrkanian pursuers to hide in this island, only to discover the monstrous secret bound within its ruins that these statues were given life in moonlight.

Ivanos – Corinthian buccaneer of the Red Brotherhood.  Ivanos was a lieutenant who served under Sergius of Khrosha until his death in single combat with Conan.  Ivanos argued that Conan should become captain of the crew as was customary with the laws of the Red Brotherhood.  After the crew was decimated in the night by the iron statues brought to life by moonlight, Ivanos and the survivors willingly accepted Conan as their new captain.

Ivga – Khaurani servant girl.

Jehungir Agha – Lord of the region that included the Turanian city of Khawarizm tasked by King Yezdigerd to secure the coastal border.  He plotted to trap Conan of the kozaki on the island of Xapur with a beautiful damsel in Octavia as bait.  Fearing for his life and the assurance of his victory, Jehungir Agha went searching for Conan on the island.  They found the godlike entity Khosatral Khel who slaughtered the contingent.  The fleeing Jehungir Agha crossed paths with Conan and fell to the barbarian’s sword stroke.

Jelal Khan – Turanian nobleman and governor of Khawarizm.

Jhebbal Sag – God once worshipped by all living things in the time when beasts and men spoke the same language.  The Picts still worshipped him under the guidance of their leader in Gwawela, Zogar Sag.  Beasts who remembered him spoke the same language and included great cats such as tigers and leopards in addition to snakes and other predatory creatures.

Jhelai – Mountain of Vendhya beneath which an intricate cave system housed nameless hermits of esoteric knowledge.

Jhil – Desert god worshipped by the Ghanatas and the Aphaki of the Tombalku.

Jhumda River – River between Turan and Vendhya where a great battle was fought between these kingdoms that saw Bhunda Chand triumphant.

Jihiji – Rival tribe and village of the Bakalah in the Black Kingdoms.

Joka – House servant to Nabonidus, the Red Priest of Aquilonia, who was killed by the revolting beast, Thak.

Jon Galter’s son – Man of the Westermarck who was slain by a Pict shaman named Teyanoga.

Jon Storm’s son – Appointed by Lord Thasperas as governor and commandant of Fort Kwanyara until he was reassigned as militia-army general and left the fort to Dirk Strom’s son.

Jugra – Wazuli village in the Himelian mountains.

Jullah – Chief god worshipped by the Gallahs of Kush.  Temples of Jullah were adorned with clusters of skulls.

Jungir Khan – Turanian governor of Zamboula whose mistress was Nafertari.  Nafertari created false identities for herself and her lover to disguise her desire for the ring of the Star of Khorala.  She used a drug provided by Totrasmek to incapacitate Jungir Khan and take the ring.  However, the drug drove him to madness that was not cured until Nafertari enlisted the aid of Conan.  The alter-ego bestowed upon Jungir Khan was of the Turanian soldier Alafdhal.

Kalenthes of Hanumar – Priest of Ibis and sworn enemy of Thoth-Amon the Stygian sorcerer.

Kallian Publico – Wealthy proprietor of the museum and antique house that bore his name in Numalia, Nemedia.  He was murdered mysteriously in the night by the God in the Bowl.

Kallian Publico’s Temple – Museum of rare antiquities located in Numalia, Nemedia.

Kamelia – Kingdom of the Thurian age predating the Great Cataclysm.

Karaban – City in the kingdom of Aquilonia ruled by the dwarfish count Volmana.

Kerim Shah – Prince of Iranistan and master bowman who secretly served King Yezdigerd of Turan and conspired with the sorcerer Khemsa to murder King Bhunda Chand of Vendhya.  When Khemsa went rogue into the Himelians and Devi Yasmina was abducted by the Black Seers, Kerim Shah allied with Conan to liberate the Devi.  Kerim Shah’s true intention was to bring her to his Turanian master to expand his influence and his seraglio.  Kerim Shah’s heart was torn from his chest by the master of the Black Seers at Mount Yimsha.

Keshan – Kingdom of dense jungles and fabled treasures; including the palace of Alkmeenon.  This nation was a frequent enemy of neighboring Punt.

Keshia – Royal city of Keshan with a palace of stone, mud, and bamboo at its center surrounded by thatched huts.

Khan – Also known as satrap.  Title for a Turanian governor.

Kharamun – Desert east of Stygia and west of Turan.

Khauran – Kingdom of western Hyboria ruled by Queen Taramis during the life of Conan.

Khawarizm – Frontier city of Turan ruled by Jehungir Agha.

Khemi – Stygian port city known for its black walls and towers.  It was a vital source of trade for the kingdom of Stygia.

Khemsa – Sorcerer who served the Black Seers of Yimsha and used necromantic powers to assassinate King Bhunda Chand of Vendhya.  He fell in love with the traitorous maid of Devi Yasmina, Gitara, who convinced him to rebel against his own masters.  Khemsa was cast into an avalanche in the Himelian mountains by the wizardry of his vengeful masters and ultimately died of his fatal wounds.  Among his abilities was a mastery of hypnotism which could impel all but the strongest of will to do his bidding.  He wore a green turban and a girdle from a Stygian priest imbued with protective magic against dark sorcery.

Kheshatta – City of magicians in Stygia.

Khitai – Far eastern nation beyond Hyboria that once worshipped the extraterrestrial being Yag-kosha as a god.  This region was one of mystery where many sought mastery of black magic.

Khojur – Wazuli village in the Himelian mountains.

Khoraja – Region of eastern Shem conquered by adventurers from Koth and founded as an independent state.  While its young king Khossus was captured by the King of Ophir and held for ransom, his sister, Yasmela, was left to maintain order.

Khoratas River – Major river bisecting Aquilonia which flowed from Tarantia to Poitain and terminated at the port city of Messantia in Argos.  The Khoratas river was often described as one teeming with fishermen and merchant barges.

Khorbhul – Village in the hills of Ghulistan that was overtaken by Turanian conquest.

Khorshemish – “Queen of the South,” capital city of the kingdom of Koth founded the ruins of a more ancient city.  King Khossus V commissioned the city’s construction and that of the first palace upon the hill.  During its construction, pits filled with unspeakable abominations were discovered to the horror of Khossus.  These were quickly resealed and the city abandoned until its revival under King Akkutho I.  His fortress would later become Tsotha-lanti’s Scarlet Citadel.

Khosala – Vendhyan province.

Khosatral Khel – Being which crawled from the obsidian Abyss to manifest itself in the substance of the material universe shaped like a man with flesh and blood harder than iron.  He found a primitive civilization on the island of Dagonia and was worshipped in the city of Dagon as a god.  Enslaved Yuetshi were sacrificed in his honor, until one procured a knife forged from a meteor fragment and led a rebellion against the Dagonians.  Khosatral Khel was rendered inert by the knife lain across his chest until a fisherman removed it nearly one thousand years later.  Once awakened, Khosatral Khel used his magic to raise the towers of Dagon and resurrect its people to a form of nocturnal unlife.  Conan, who was seeking to rescue Octavia from her Turanian captors, battled for the woman with Khosatral Khel fruitlessly until he obtained the meteor knife and slew the entity.  Upon his death, all of Dagonia returned to dust and ruin of Xapur.

Khosru Khan – Turanian governor of Secunderam.

Khossus – of Khoraja.  King of Kothian descent named for the ancient kings of Khorshemish.  He led an army of Kothian adventurers to conquer the territory of eastern Shem and establish the kingdom of Khoraja.  His sister was Princess Yasmela, who ruled in his stead when Khossus was captured by the king of Ophir and held for ransom.

Khossus V – King of ancient Koth and founder of the city of Khorshemish.

Khrosha – Village in Koth.

Khrosha Mountains – “Flaming mountains,” a chain of volcanoes located in Hyboria.

Khumbanigash – General of Constantius’s mercenary army in Khauran who was cut down by Conan during the battle beyond the city’s walls.

Khurakzai – Hill-dwelling people at the foot of the Himelians.

Khurum – Sovereign village of the Wazuli tribes ruled by its chief, Yar Afzal, until his death.  Khurum was nestled within a valley in the Himelian mountain region.

Khurusun – Turanian city in southern region bordering Vendhya.

King’s Altar – Tallest of the Goralian hills and site of Xaltotun’s death.

Knife Creek – Stream beside Fort Kwanyara.

Kordava – Port and capital city of Zingara.

Kordofo – General of the horsemen of Tombalku.  He was poisoned by King Sakumbe so Conan could take his place.

Kormon – City of Aquilonia under Baron Thasperas.

Korveka – Cite of a battle won by the army of Khauran.

Korvela Bay – Inlet in the coast of the southern region of the Pictish Wilderness beyond the borders of Zingara.

Korzetta – Royal castle of Zingara adorned with the emblem of the red falcon.  This name was also attributed to the royal caste of Kordava.

Kosala – Region where the god Yajur was worshipped in Yota-pong with human sacrifices executed by the stranglers of Yajur.  One notable son of Kosala was Baal-pteor.

Koth – Kingdom south and east of Ophir in central Hyboria.  It was originally founded by Hyborians on the borders of Shem.  Its capital was Khorshemish where King Strabonus reigned during the life of Conan, though the sinister wizard Tsotha-lanti was said to be Koth’s true ruler.

Kozaki – also known as Kozak or Free Companions.  The word literally translated to mean wastrel.  A race of former slaves, criminals, and deserters formed from a score of races and tribes.  The Kozaki “lived in the saddle,” traveling the plains along the Zaporaska River in Hyrkania, each band under the leadership of a hetman.  A mercenary troop of five thousand Free Companions that included Conan raided the kingdoms of Turan, Koth, and Zamora impartially until the cavalry of Shah Amurath trapped them at the banks of the Ilbars and slaughtered all but Conan.  Other bands of Free Companions included that which fought for Zarallo and plundered Stygia’s eastern frontier and others under the warleader Constantius and the native Zaporaskan Olgerd Vladislav.

Krallides – Faithful councilor to Queen Taramis of Khauran who was captured by Salome when returning from Turan and beheaded.

Kshatriyas – Members of the uppermost caste of Vendhya.

Kush – Nation south of Stygia with a coastline plagued by pirate activity.  It was known as one of the great black kingdoms and produced intimidating warriors often recruited by the forces of Stygia.

Kutamun – Prince of Stygia who rebelled against King Ctesphon to join the cult of Natohk.  Kutamun brought war chariots and five thousand Stygian troops with him to join the rabbled masses of the Veiled One and charge against the nations of Hyboria.  He perished by Conan’s hand at the battle of the Pass of Shamla when his forces were defeated by ’s Khoraji army.

Kuthchemes – Ancient city in the desert at the southeastern border of Shem.  At its center was a towering ivory dome that housed a hoard of fabled treasure as well as the tomb of Thugra Khotan.  Kuthchemes was built by Stygians when their kingdom stretched far north of the great river Styx.  It was ruled by a line of dark sorcerers, the last of which was Thugra Khotan who reigned three thousand years prior to the life of Conan.  The barbarian hordes united to drive back the Stygians and sack the city, though they were unable to penetrate the walls of the ivory dome.

Kwarada – The witch of Skandaga.  She dwelled in a hut by Lynx Creek in Schohira where she plotted with the Picts and Lord Valerian against the settlers of the Westermarck.  She was half Hawk-Pict, half Ligurean.

Kyros – Renowned vineyards in Argos said to yield the best wine vintages in Hyboria.

Laranga – Black Corsair who sailed under Amra the Lion before being taken as a slave by Captain Demetrio of the Venturer.  He rallied to Conan in order to sail as a Black Corsair once again after revolting against their slave masters.

Lemuria – Pre-Cataclysmic civilization that rivaled that of Atlantis.  It existed upon a chain of large islands in the eastern hemisphere until they sank beneath the ocean during the Cataclysm.  The descendants of Lemuria settled in the far east that later became known as Hyrkania and were originally enslaved by the native people of that region.  They eventually rose to destroy their masters, forcing the survivors of that uprising to venture west to become the conquerors of Stygia who imposed their own culture upon its native people.

Ligurean – Tribe of light skinned savages that dwelled in the forests of the Pictish Wilderness.  They often warred with the Picts, but allied with them on occasion.

Lissa – Gazali taken captive by Tilutan the Ghanata.  She was rescued by Amalric and returned to her home at Gazal, but the fiend Ollam-onga abducted her and prompted Amalric to rescue her once again and take her into the desert to find Conan and the Tombalku.

Little Wilderness – The forested wilds beyond the isolated settlement of Thandara.  A battle was won by the Thandarans against the army of Baron Attelius at this location.

Livia – Ophirean woman of the house of Chelkus.  She was taken captive first by Kushites and later by King Bajujh of Bakalah while travelling with her brother, Theteles, to Kheshatta in Stygia.  She was taken as a prisoner into the Black Kingdoms where she later met with Conan in Bakalah and convinved him to help her escape to freedom. Terrified by her savior’s savagery, she fled from him to the Vale of Lost Women where Conan rescued her from becoming a sacrifice to an otherworldly being.

Luna – Aquilonian currency.

Luxur – Capital city of Stygia.

Lynx Creek – Stream beyond Valerian Hall where the hut of the witch of Skandaga stood.

The Maul – District in the City of Thieves in Zamora where the thieves of the east held carnival at night.  It was a haven for all manner of rogues and brutes.

The Maze – District in Corinth characterized by labyrinthine, unpaved paths creating a literal maze of black alleys reeking with the stench of cesspools that is avoided by honest peoples at all costs.

Messantia – Seaport city in Argos.

Mitra – Chief god worshipped throughout the nations of Hyboria, though principally in central regions including Aquilonia.  Mitra was said to inhabit high places among the stars.  Shrines to him existed universally across the entire continent and were best described by their Spartan elegance, often featuring little more than lofty ceilings of white marble and a centralized statue representing an idealized, male form seated upon a pedestal.  Mitra’s name was often used in Hyborian vernacular as invective and expletive.  Acolytes of the cult of Mitra also revere Epemitreus the Sage as a holy figure of their religion.  Unlike the majority of religions during the Hyborian Age, no human sacrifices were made to Mitra, nor did his followers literally believe that he inhabited the statues built in his honor as was the case with Ishtar.

Muriela – Corinthian dancing girl who pretended to be Yelaya, oracle of Keshan, at the behest of Zargheba.  In this role, she was able to manipulate the Keshani priests until she was discovered by Conan.  Conan convinces her to betray Zargheba and Thutmekri by impersonating the oracle in order to encourage the Keshani to favor Conan as receiver of the jewels of Gwahlur.  After doing so, Muriela was abducted and taken deep into the subterranean passageways of Alkmeenon.  She was rescued there from the vicious servants of BȊt-Yakin by Conan, who agrees to travel with her from Keshan to lucrative opportunities in Punt.

Murilo – Young aristocrat who attempted to secure Conan’s escape from the dungeons of Corinth in exchange for assassinating Nabonidus for threatening Murilo’s life.  When this attempt failed, Murilo stole into the estate of Nabonidus to kill the priest himself.  He was seized by the beast Thak disguised as Nabonidus and fought to escape the estate with the help of Conan and the Red Priest.

Nabonidus – Red Priest of and purportedly the true ruler of Corinthia.  His endless greed and boundless ambition resulted in gaining numerous enemies in the kingdom.  His protection from assassination attempts involved an estate riddled with booby-traps, a guard dog, and a robust ape-like creature named Thak.  It was during an assassination attempt on the Red Priest’s life that Thak revolted against his master and rendered him unconscious.  When the danger has passed, Nabonidus betrayed his rescuers and was slain by Conan for his treachery.

Nafertari – Mistress of Jungir Khan in Zamboula.  Nafertari created false identities for herself and her lover to disguise her desire for the ring of the Star of Khorala.  Her alter-ego was of a dancing-girl named Zabibi.

Namedides – King of Aquilonia during the later years of Conan’s life.  Son of King Vilerus, Namedides was a cruel ruler who crippled his subjects with taxes and unjust laws.  Conan incited rebellion in Poitain and gathered a mercenary army to seize the capital of Tamar.  He strangled King Namedides to death and took the crown as his own.

Natala – Blonde, lithe-figured Brythunian girl.  Natala was for sale in a Shemite slave market when Conan found and purchased her.  The two were the only survivors of Prince Almuric’s mercenary army after a definitive defeat by the combined forces of Kush and Stygia.  They crossed the cursed southern desert and nearly met their deaths by the exhausting journey before discovering the forgotten city of Xuthal.  While inside, Natala was abducted by Thalis and taken deep within the city.  She freed herself from Thalis and narrowly escaped death in the form of the creature, Thog, when Conan bested the fiend in bloody battle and the two escaped into the desert with provisions to survive the journey.

Natohk – the Veiled One.  A prophet who rose among the nomads in the desert east of Stygia and amassed an army to make war on the Hyborian kingdoms from his chamber of Akbatana.  Among his powers were the ability to command a demon who he enslaved, as well as the ability to send a shadow of himself to plague his enemies.  His features were always masked to conceal his true identity as the ancient sorcerer Thugra Khotan.  Natohk’s army of cult followers and Stygian defectors marched towards Khoraja in order to seize the city and its leader, Princess Yasmela.  This army, masked by supernatural fog, was confronted by Khoraja’s forces under the leadership of Conan before the Pass of Shamla.  Conan’s host won the day and broke Natohk’s forces to a scattering, crimson chaos.  Despite the impending defeat, Natohk charged at Princess Yasmela’s pavilion with his chariot and stole her from the battlefield.  Conan mounted a riderless horse and chased him into the desert.  Arriving at the ruins of Kuthchemes, the demon fled from Natohk before the sorcerer was impaled by Conan’s thrown sword.

Nemedia – Nation rich in pursuits of knowledge and philosophy nestled between Aquilonia and Brythunia in central Hyboria.  Great moments in history were recorded in the Nemedian Chronicles and valuable antiquities were housed in the museum of Kallian Publico’s Temple in the city of Numalia.  Its people were said to be great skeptics who shunned the various religions of the Hyborian continent.  Nemedia was ruled during the life of Conan by Lord Numa from its capital of Belverus.  When Numa died, his elder son, Nimed, took the throne despite the jealousy of Nimed’s brother, Tarascus.  It was this jealousy that moved Tarascus to betray his brother and seize the crown of Nemedia.

Nemedian Chronicles – Comprehensive text chronicling great events in the history of Hyboria spanning such epochs as the years between the oceans drinking of Atlantis and the gleaming cities and the rise of the sons of Aryas.

Nestor – Gunderman mercenary and leader of a squad of Zamorian soldiers tasked with pursuing thieves in the realm of Zamora.

N’Gora – Subchief to the Black Corsairs aboard the Tigress.  A devolved, winged-ape creature drove N’Gora to madness while the pirates looted the forgotten city on the banks of the Zarkheba.  In this state, N’Gora charged at Conan and forced the barbarian to slay his comrade.

Nilus – Nile River.  See Styx.

Nimed – Son of King Numa of Nemedia who ascended to the throne after Numa’s death.  Nimed and his three sons perished from a plague that swept through the streets of Belverus during the Year of the Dragon.  This plague was caused by Xaltotun’s dark sorcery at the behest of Nimed’s younger brother, Tarascus, who quickly seized the crown after Nimed’s death.

Nippr – One of the sister cities of Shem.

Niord – Aesir warrior who failed to arrive in time to aid Wulfhere’s forces against the onslaught of Bragi.  His band of reavers included Horsa and Old Gorm, who delighted in Conan’s tale of pursuing Atali, the Frost Giant’s daughter.

Numa – Lord of Nemedia during the life of Conan.  He was famous for his extravagant taste in white wine and dancing girls.  King Numa was succeeded by his elder son, Nimed.

Numalia – Prominent city located in Nemedia.

N’Yaga – First mate to Bêlit aboard the Tigress.  N’Yaga was a Black Corsair who sailed with Amra the Lion until he perished along with the rest of the Tigress crew during their ill-fated voyage along the Zarkheba River.

Octavia – Daughter of a Nemedian lord who was taken captive by Jehungir Agha during a Turanian raid into Nemedia.  Jehungir forced her to be his slave and serve as bait to trap Conan of the kozaks on Xapur.  However, she was abducted on the island and taken to Khosatral Khel within the chambers of ancient Dagon.  Conan rescued her from the fiend and they fled from the island.

Ogaha Creek – Stream where the town of Thenitea was settled in Schohira.

Olgerd Vladislav – Native of the northern steppes of Hyboria who travelled south before rising to become a hetman of the kozaki.  He later took leadership of a band of Zuagir raiders.  While travelling past the palatial city of Khauran, Olgerd rescued Conan from death by crucifixion upon the tree of death.  He promoted the Cimmerian to his lieutenant and for seven months they raided Turanian cities and gathered forces to their banner.  The true loyalty of this massive army was for Conan, who broke Olgerd’s arm and deposed him as leader of the Zuagir before marching upon Khauran to liberate Taramis and avenge himself upon Constantius and Salome.

Olivia – Daughter to king Amalrus of Ophir who was sold to a Shemite chief for refusing to marry prince of Koth.  The chief then sold her to Shah Amurath of Hyrkanian city of Akif.  While attempting to flee from her new master, Olivia was rescued by Conan who took her to the Isle of Iron Statues to help protect her.  They soon discovered the dreaded secret of the island that its inhabitants were turned to iron statues by an angry god.  They would only awake in the glow of moonlight, which prompted Olivia and Conan to escape with the surviving crew of Sergius of Khrosha.

Ollam-onga – Horrifying god worshipped in Kush who feasted on the Gazali in the oasis city of Gazal from the mysterious red tower.  A wizard’s incantation could bind him to human form until the speaker’s heart was devoured.  Amalric confronted Ollam-onga to rescue Lissa from his clutches and impaled the dread god upon his sword.

Olmec – Prince of the Tecuhltli who vowed to commit his people to the destruction of the Xotalancs.  He was strangled to death by Conan.

Onayaga – the Hawk Clan.  A tribe of Picts who adorned their black manes with hawk feathers.

Ophir – Bordering kingdom south and east of Aquilonia.  It was ruled by King Amalrus during the life of Conan.

Orastes – Former priest of Mitra.  Orastes was expelled for using black magic and rescued from execution by a Nemedian nobleman named Amalric.  He conspired to make kings of Tarascus and Valerius by usurping the thrones of Nemedia and Aquilonia.  To this end, Orastes procured the Heart of Ahriman and resurrected the Acheronian sorcerer Xaltotun to defeat the respective kings of each realm.  Xaltotun instructed Orastes and his acolytes in black magic and the sorcerous ways of the ancient priests of Acheron.  Orastes came to fear Xaltotun’s grand design of reviving the empire of Acheron and was beheaded by his master for his betrayal.

Oriskonie – Northernmost and sparsely settled province of the Westermarck.

Outer Dark – Term for the space beyond the limits of Earth’s sky.  It was a realm of extraterrestrial planets and entities beyond the faculties of mortal beings.

Pai-kang – Purple-towered city in Khitai.

Palian Way – Main road that runs through Numalia, city of Nemedia.

Pallantides – Military commander of the Black Dragons under King Conan of Aquilonia.  Pallantides served as general of Conan’s army when King Tarascus of Nemedia declared war upon Aquilonia.   When his king was stricken by Xaltotun’s curse prior to the battle of Valkia, Pallantides convinced Valannus to adorn the king’s armor and lead Aquilonia upon the battlefield.  Pallantides fought nobly at Valkia, but he was trampled by horses after the fall of Valannus.  His wounded body was ransomed by his family and taken to a castle in Attains.  When he recovered, Pallantides led raids along the Ophirean frontier to draw the attention of Valerius and Xaltotun away from the Aquilonian revolution.  He fought nobly with the king’s knights at the battle of the Valley of Lions where he impaled Amalric upon his lance.

Pelias – Sorcerer and rival to the dark Kothian wizard Tsotha-lanti.  Pelias was captured by Tsotha and bound by the Yothga plant in the dungeon beneath the wizard’s Scarlet Citadel in Khorshemish for ten years.  Pelias was rescued by King Conan during his attempt to flee from the dreadful pits.  His powers included the ability to summon the dead, as well as fantastic creatures from beyond human memory.  He aided in Conan’s escape and ultimately returned to the field of battle before the city of Shamar that saw the end of the alliance of Koth and Ophir to the forces of Aquilonia.  Pelias descended upon the battlefield in the form of a great eagle, seized the head of Tsotha which Conan had severed, and escaped with it into the sky with Tsotha’s beheaded body in pursuit.

Pelishtim – An ancient people whose capital was the city of Asgalun in what later became part of the kingdom of Shem.  They worshipped a hideous god named Pteor and built shrines to him in the hidden recesses of Alkmeenon in Keshia. It is said that the wise men among the Pelishtim mastered the art of prolonging the human lifespan.  Notable Pelishtim include the explorer BȊt-Yakin.  Descendants of the Pelishtim served as mercenaries in desert cities including Zamboula east of Stygia.  A city bearing the name Pelishtim remained long after the collapse of this ancient civilization in Shem.

Pellia – Province of Aquilonia.

Peshkhauri – Vendhyan city governed by Chunder Shan a mere hour’s ride from the Himelian crags to the north.  The city was well-fortified in case of Himelian invasion.

Petreus – Nobleman of Corinthia who attempted to assassinate the Red Priest with a small group of loyal, nationalist followers seeking to end the political corruption that plagued his country.  He perished in the estate of Nabonidus when one of its traps was triggered by the beast Thak.

Pictish Wilderness – Savage forests north and west of the great kingdom of Aquilonia.  It was peopled by warrior clans of Picts and Ligureans that consistently proved themselves unconquerable to foreign invasions by such nations as Cimmeria and Aquilonia.

Picts – Tribal warrior race native to the wilderness in northwest Hyboria beyond the borders of Aquilonia.  The Picts descended from barbarians of the Pre-Cataclysmic Age who dwelled on the Pictish Islands far out on the western ocean.  The islands were devastated by the Cataclysm, so only those settled on the southwest region of the main continent survived and reverted to primitive shadows of their former civilization.  These people came into conflict with the Atlanteans during the mass migrations resulting from the Cataclysm and prior to the lesser Cataclysm in the Pictish-Atlantean Wars.  The Picts of the Hyborian Age frequently raided the Bossonian Marches and westernmost borders of Aquilonia.  These savages waged wars with the neighboring Aquilonians and Ligureans in addition to those amongst rival Pictish tribes.  Their tribes were often named for birds (Hawk, Raven, Eagle, Toucan, Cormorant, etc.) or other animals (Panther, Wolf, etc.) and each ruled by a shaman.  Gifted with black sorcery, these shamans could summon wild beasts to do their bidding and even transfer souls between the bodies of man and animal.  The Picts worshipped the old god Jhebbal Sag and wore war paint and other tribal markings and items upon their bodies.

Poitain – Southernmost province of Aquilonia known for its palm and rose gardens.  Well-regarded as the most extravagant and lush of Aquilonia’s provinces.  The plains of Poitain stretched to the river Alimane, which formed a natural border with Zingara.  The valor of the knights of Poitain was famed throughout the nation.  When Conan sought the crown of Aquilonia, he convinced the lords of Poitain under Prospero to join him in overthrowing King Namedides which brought civil war to all of Aquilonia.

Posthumo – Guardsman of Nemedia and member of the Numalian police known for his brutality in questioning suspects and witnesses in the Inquisitorial Court.

Promero – Kallian Publico’s chief clerk at the museum and antique house that bore his name.  He died of fright after seeing the Child of Set that emerged from the Bowl in Kallian Publico’s Temple.

Prospero – Lord of Poitain and chief aid to King Conan of Aquilonia.  He joined Conan’s forces to repel the invading armies of Koth and Ophir after the Cimmerian escaped from Tsotha’s Scarlet Citadel.  On the field of battle, Prospero slew the traitorous King Amalrus of Ophir with his two-handed sword.  Years later, Prospero was called upon as lord of the knights of Poitain to aid in battle against an invasion by King Tarascus of Nemedia.  Prospero failed to arrive in time to participate in the battle of Valkia.

Pteor – God of the Pelishtim known for its visage of obscene monstrosity.

Publio – Argossean merchant who dwelled in Messantia and conducted business with Conan during his days as a pirate with the Black Corsairs.  When King Conan returned to Publio to demand his aid, Publio secretly plotted to have him murdered.

Publius – High councilor to King Conan of Aquilonia.  His loyalty was unwavering, even when the usurper Prince Arpello imprisoned him after seizing control of Tamar.  Years later he was forced to flee Aquilonia in disguise after Valerius seized power.

Punt – Nation east of Keshan and frequent adversary of this neighboring kingdom.  The rivers were said to be exceptional for gold panning.

Punt (Kush) – Outer city districts where dwelled the lower castes of Shumballa or Gallahs.

Purple lotus – Flower that grows in the southern swamps of Stygia.  Its juice was made into a powerful toxin to induce paralysis.

Python – Capital city of the empire of Acheron where Xaltotun once ruled.

Queen of the Black Coast – See Bêlit.

Rakhsha – Title for a Himelian sorcerer.

Rammon – Sorcerer known throughout the northern nations of Hyboria said to rival the power of Thoth-Amon, notorious throughout the southern nations of Stygia and beyond.

The Rat’s Den – Tavern in Corinth.

Red Brotherhood – Band of fearless pirates that fought thousands of battles on sea and land.  The brotherhood was founded by Red Ortho.  Members ascended the ranks by challenging their superiors in knife duels to the death.  Other notable figures in the Red Brotherhood included Valeria and Sergius of Khrosha.

Red Hand – Barachan pirate vessel of Captain Strom.  Conan assumed command of the vessel after the death of Strom during the battle of Valenso’s compound on Korvela Bay.

Red Ortho – Founder and leader of the pirates referred to as the Red Brotherhood.

Red Priest – See Nabonidus.

Red Tower – Kushite palace of Princess Tananda, sister to the king of Kush in Shumballa.

Rinaldo – Great poet of Aquilonia.  In his youth, Rinaldo was captured by the Kothian Tsotha-lanti and held in his pits under Khorshemish.  The Song of the Pit was inspired by his confinement under the cruel wizard.  Rinaldo later became known throughout Aquilonia for his songs damning the rule of King Conan and stirring unrest amongst its people.  He was the minstrel of the court of King Conan who conspired against his master in planning his assassination.  He joined the ill-fated assassination attempt on Conan’s life, only to have his skull shattered by the axe-wielding Cimmerian.

The Road of Kings – Poem written by King Conan that chronicled his life as an adventurer who ultimately attained the crown of Aquilonia.

Sabatea – Domed city located in Stygia and dwelling place of the Black Ring.

Saber-tooth Tiger – Ancient beast summoned by Zogar Sag in the great forest beyond the Black River.  Its jaws were massive and the bulk of its body resembled that of a bear more than any tiger or lion.

Saidu – Ghanata who battled Amalric for Lissa only to be accidentally cut down by Tilutan.

Sakumbe – Suba from the Black Coast who once adventured with Amra the Lion.  He found his way to the Tombalku and rose to power as one of their two kings.

Salome – Twin sister to Queen Taramis of the Askhaurian dynasty in Khauran.  Salome was born with the bloodred crescent birthmark upon her chest.  This marked her as a witch and resulted in her exile into the desert after her birth.  Salome was rescued by a sorcerer from Khitai who raised her in the city of Pai-kang and taught her the art of black magic.  In adulthood, she was driven away from the disappointed sorcerer who called her nothing but a common witch.  Salome chose to return to Khauran so she may seize power by impersonating Taramis and enlisting the aid of Constantius and his mercenary army.  She ruled the kingdom as a cruel mistress by levying outrageous taxes, engaging in unspeakable debauchery, and sacrificing the innocent to the hideous creature Thaug.  During Conan’s conquest of the city with his loyal Zuagir army, Salome was impaled upon the sword of Valerius.

Sancha – Daughter to the Duke of Kordava who was abducted during a raid by Zaporavo and his Freebooters.  She spent years aboard the Wastrel until the arrival of Conan who freed her from Zaporavo’s clutches and certain doom at the hands of the Black Ones.

Satha – the Old One.  Chiefest of Tsotha-lanti’s pets lurking in the pits beneath Khorshemish.  Satha was a massive reptile and distant descendant to the ancient Ghost Snakes that once plagued the Pictish Wilderness.

Scalp Creek – Stream located a short road’s distance from Fort Tuscelan.

Scarlet Citadel – Palace of Tsotha-lanti in Khorshemish, capital city of Koth.  It was first built by King Akkutho I as a fortress upon the ruins of King Khossus V’s castle.  The building’s dark secret was the system of tunnels that were used as dungeons by the wizard Tsotha-lanti.  These tunnels were inhabited by terrifying monstrosities.

Schohira – Smallest province of the Westermarck ruled by Lord Thasperas of Kormon.  During the rebellion of Poitain, Schohira was loyal to Conan.

Schondara – Town a few miles east of Fort Kwanyara in Schohira.

Secunderam – Northern city in Vendhya which was conquered by the kingdom of Turan and governed by Khosru Khan.

Sergius – of Khrosha.  Kothian pirate of enormous build with a shaved head save for a scalp-lock and a prominent mustache.  Sergius was a notorious captain of the Red Brotherhood who commandeered a Hyrkanian vessel on the Vilayet sea.  He was crossed by Conan during his days with the Free Companions and Sergius vowed vengeance.  The opportunity came when he discovered Conan hiding on the Isle of Iron Statues and set his men upon him.  The two fought in single combat, but Conan proved himself the superior swordsman and Sergius fell face down in a pool of his own blood.

Serpent Ring of Set – Powerful ring of metal like copper set in the coiling shape of a snake in three loops appearing to devour its own tail.  It also featured yellow gems for eyes.  The ring is said to have been entombed beneath the Earth long before the evolutionary ascension of mankind, but was eventually discovered by Thoth-Amon.  The sorcerer manipulated its dark magic to grant him dominion over unseen forces from outside.  The ring came to the baron Dion from a Shemitish thief, which he called his “ring of good fortune,” before being reclaimed by Thoth-Amon.

Servio – The proprietor of an inn and tavern known as the House of Servio located in Messantia.

Servius Galannus – Farmer who owned a great plantation outside the walls of Tarantia in Aquilonia.

Set – Chief god of Stygian worship.  Known as the serpent god, it is said that he once coiled around the world like a python around its prey.  The children of Set, vile beings with serpentine bodies and human faces, were still said to plague dark corners of the world during the life of Conan.  Temples dedicated to the worship of Set housed massive serpents that slithered into the streets of Stygian cities to engage in sacrificial feasts.

Shadizar – City of Wickedness.  Located in Zamora, Shadizar the Wicked was widely regarded as a horrid place where women were stripped naked on the auction block.

Shah Amurath – Lord of Akif.  Shah Amurath was a Hyrkanian famed for conquering the kozaki after defeating them in battle at the steppe by the Ilbars River.  His horse, Irem, was called the fastest in all of Hyboria.  While pursuing the fleeing Olivia from the gates of Akif, Shah Amurath met Conan of the kozaki who slew him in single combat.

Shahpur – Turanian city.

Shalizah – Pass to Gurashah valley through the Himelian mountains in the Turanian controlled region.

Shamar – Aquilonian city beside the Tybor River situated near the border of Ophir.

Shamla – Ancient road connecting the northern nations of Hyboria to its southern nations.  It stretched from the eastern borders of Koth through the deserts that blanketed the eastern regions of Stygia.  The Pass of Shamla had a long history, bearing armies of Koth, Khoraja, Shem, Turan, and Stygia to battlefields beyond measure.  By the time of Conan, the Pass of Shamla had fallen to ruin.  Like a great hand opening into an expansive valley, all roads but the Pass of Shamla were closed by rugged cliffs.  This made it an ideal location for Conan to array the army of Khoraja for battle against the cult of Natohk and execute a definitive victory against his foe.

Shamu – Plain in Ophir where five thousand cavalry of King Conan of Aquilonia were slaughtered by a host of allies from Ophir, Koth, and Shem under the betrayal of King Amalrus.

Shem – Great kingdom of Hyboria located between the nations of Koth to the north and Stygia to the south.  Shem was settled by nomadic savages living on the eastern borders of Stygia who followed a leader of the same name and called themselves the Sons of Shem.  In ancient times an empire of Shem rose to power.  It was ruled from the capital of Shushan, though the empire fell well before the life of Conan.  The great sister cities of Shem included Nippr, Shumir, and Eruk; each city was known for its asshuri nomadic warriors.  The nation’s nobles kept seraglios of exotic women, though Shem knew no laws but those enforced by each independent city-state.  The pantheon of Shemite gods included Ishtar, Ashtoreth, Derketo, and Adonis.  Shemites were said to be born with bows in their hands, unequalled by any other bowmen, though greed and materialism were said to be part of the Shemite soul.

Shevatas – Master-thief of Zamora who was wiry and lithe of frame.  He descended from a very old race to become a legend among thieves, so much so that his exploits were of unrivalled renown from the roguish quarter of the City of Thieves in Zamora known as the Maul to the temples of Bel across the lands of Hyboria.  Shevatas came to the ruins of Kuthchemes to infiltrate its fabled treasure vaults within the ivory dome of Thugra Khotan’s tomb.  While Shevatas was able to slay the giant snake guarding the entryway to the interior of the dome, he did not survive the encounter with the dark sorcerer within who was Thugra Khotan himself.

Shirki River – River flowing from Gunderland through central Aquilonia.

Shoki – Plant with leaves that produced an ink when crushed that were used for writing in Vendhya and neighboring countries.

Shubba – Gallah servant to Tuthmes.

Shukeli – Chief slave and eunuch of the Kothian wizard Tsotha-lanti who served in his castle at Khorshemish until he was disemboweled by King Conan of Aquilonia while he was trying to escape from the horrid pits.

Shumballa – Capital city of Kush divided by a massive wall into an outer city called Punt and an inner city called El Shebbeh.  The outer city housed the lower caste citizens while the inner city housed the nobility and upper caste citizens.

Shumir – One of the sister cities of Shem.  Legend told that the god Bel was born in ancient Shumir and went forth to steal the gems from the kings of old.

Shushan – Capital of the ancient empire of Shem associated with the avarice of its rulers.  It was a vital Shemite city-state during the life of Conan.

Skandaga – Pict village located in the Pictish Wilderness.

Skelos – Sorcerer revered across the lands of Hyboria who lived several millennia prior to Conan.  Skelos was responsible for writing the infamous tome known as the Book of Skelos.  The iron bound book was filled with incantations and forbidden knowledge, including descriptions of a mysterious island of horrors and treasures known as the Isle of the Black Ones, ancient creatures like the colossal snakes of Jhebbal Sag, and far more secrets lost in vague eons.  The votaries of Skelos spoke of such matters as the Stygian cult of Thugra Khotan and his tomb at the ruins of Kuthchemes.  There was also a well that bore the name of Skelos, which was presumably the cite where the scribe gleaned the dark secrets scrawled in the Book of Skelos.

Skuthus – Stygian necromancer.

Slasher – Stray dog who once belonged to a frontiersman living in the Pictish Wilderness.  When his owner was slain by Picts and his cabin burned to the ground, Slasher killed three of the raiders before nearly succumbing to his wounds.  He was nursed back to health by the efforts of Conan and the soldiers of Fort Tuscelan.  Slasher perished at the side of Balthus while defending the escaping settlers of Conajohara.

The Song of Bêlit – Poem written by Conan that recounts the tale of meeting Bêlit and falling in love with her during their seafaring adventures that culminated in tragedy.  The poem shifts perspective from that of Bêlit to that of Conan.  It is likely that the poem was written during his years as king of Aquilonia when Conan also composed The Road of Kings.

The Song of the Pit – Poem written by the Aquilonian minstrel Rinaldo based on his time spent in the dungeons of Tsotha-lanti.

Soractus – Bossonian woodsman slain by the forest devils of Zogar Sag.

Star of Khorala – Precious stone set in the ring of Ophir’s queen which possessed the ability to enslave the hearts of men and command their bidding.  It was stolen from the queen and came to the possession of Jungir Khan of Zamboula.  His mistress, Nafertari, sought to steal it from her husband with the aid of the high priest Totrasmek, but he betrayed her by driving Jungir Khan to madness with the drug he bestowed.  While disguised as a dancing-girl and calling herself Zabibi, Nafertari enlisted the aid of Conan in recovering the ring.  However, Conan stole it for himself and fled from Zamboula after saving the lives of Jungir Khan and his mistress.

Storm Grom’s son – Ranger of Fort Kwanyara who remained to guard against the Picts when Lord Thasperas recalled his army to aid the conquest of Aquilonia beside Conan.

Strabonus – King of Koth who allied with King Amalrus of Ophir against the Aquilonians.  He led the forces of Koth alongside the wizard Tsotha-lanti in alliance with Ophirians and Shemites to decimate the cavalry of King Conan at the plain of Shamu.  Conan was imprisoned and believed dead prior to the massive siege of Shamar by Strabonus and his allies.  The triumphant return of the king of Aquilonia marked the end of the reign of Strabonus as ruler of Koth as the two met in single combat and Conan split his enemy’s skull with his ax.

Strom – Argossean pirate and captain of the Barachan vessel and crew of the Red Hand who sailed to Korvela Bay in search of the treasure of Tranicos.  He was knifed in the back while defending Valenso’s compound from an alliance of Pictish tribes.

Stygia – Nation south of the Hyborian continent known for dense jungles and sprawling deserts.  The region was settled by migrants from Hyrkania who fled from their revolting Lemurian slaves.  These slave-masters the proceeded to subjugate the native population of the realm to be known as Stygia.  This Stygian civilization relied heavily upon the great river Styx that flowed along its border, nourishing the jungle and providing haven from the desert.  Stygia was ruled by King Ctesphon during the life of Conan.  He ruled from the capital city of Luxur.

Styx River – Nilus or Nile.  Great river that formed a natural border between the nations of Shem and Stygia.

Suba – Title for a pirate of the Black Coast.

Sukhmet – Small town on the border of Stygia known as a rugged place of ale-barrels and meat-pots.

Sultanapur – Turanian city.

Swamp Demon – Demonic offspring of Jhebbal Sag described as slender and man-shaped with talons and crane-like, three-toed feet.  They shimmer with unearthly fire of blue and green and stalk the forests of the world, particularly those of the Pictish Wilderness.  Zogar Sag was known for summoning swamp demons with blood magic to do his bidding.

Swamps of the Dead – Dreary land beyond the borders of Khitai where the gray lotus grows.

Tamar – Capital city of Aquilonia from which King Namedides ruled.  After Conan seized the city and strangled the life from Namedides, he ruled for over a decade before frequent assassination attempts convinced him to rechristen the capital of Aquilonia as Tarantia.

Tananda – Sister to the king of Kush during the life of Conan who was framed for the death of Amboola.  Tananda was attacked by a Gallah mob while travelling through the Punt section of Shumballa when she was rescued by Conan.  She rewarded him by promoting Conan to captain of her royal guard.

Tanasul – Village south of Galparan along the Shirki river in northern Aquilonia.

Taramis – Queen of Khauran of the Askhaurian dynasty.  She believed her twin sister, Salome, to have died in the hour of her birth until she visited her as an adult and seized her identity and her throne with the mercenary army of Constantius.  For over seven months she was interred in the palace dungeon until Conan’s Zuagir army retook the city and the loyal soldier Valerius liberated his queen.

Tarantia – Formerly Tamar.  City of the kingdom of Aquilonia that was named the new capital by King Conan nearly a decade after the death of King Namedides.

Tarascus – Son of King Numa of Nemedia.  Upon Numa’s death, his elder son, Nimed, ascended to the throne.  Tarascus conspired with Valerius, Orastes, and Amalric to claim the throne of Nemedia and depose Conan from the throne of Aquilonia.  Once he seized rule of Nemedia through a plot of treachery and assassination, Tarascus declared war on Aquilonia which culminated at the battle of Valkia.  During the battle, Xaltotun single-handedly defeated the army of King Conan.  Fearing Xaltotun’s seemingly limitless power, Tarascus employed a thief to take the Heart of Ahriman from the sorcerer and dispose of it.  He later joined the forces of his allies against the Aquilonian revolt, only to lose his host to the united forces under King Conan at the battle of the Valley of Lions.  Tarascus was spared as ransom for the life of Zenobia.

Tarim – Chief of the gods worshipped in Turan.  The temples and priests of Tarim held a secret allegiance to the Black Seers of Yimsha.

Tascela – Princess of Tecuhltli.  She was desired by an old Stygian king, which was why the Tlazitlan brothers bore her into the Black Kingdoms.  She was taken as Xotalanc’s wife, though Tecuhltli and Tolkemec desired her.  Tecuhltli stole her with the aid of Tolkemec, which ignited the unending war between the three factions.  She was a witch who had perpetual youth from sacrificing young, beautiful victims.  Tascela was slain by Valeria while she and Conan fought to escape the ruins of Xuchotl.

Tauran – Province of Aquilonia south of the Bossonian marches.

Taurus – of Nemedia.  Thief of great height and greater bulk who stole into the Tower of the Elephant to seize the prized jewel known as the Elephant’s Heart.  He stumbled upon Conan while sneaking through the tower’s lower level and the two decided to join forces to accomplish their shared endeavor.  Taurus claimed to have lived an adventurous life that spanned every corner of Hyboria, claims that were seemingly validated by his use of weaponized black lotus powder to kill the guard lions of the tower garden.  However, Taurus was ill-prepared for the massive spider that guarded the tower’s treasure chamber and succumbed to its venomous bite.

Taurus – of Khoraja.  Chancellor of the kingdom of Khoraja.

Techotl – Tecuhltli ally of Conan and Valeria of the Red Brotherhood who assisted them on their journey through Xuchotl.

Tecuhltli – Section of Xuchotl located by the western gate.  It was inhabited by a superstitious people who lived in fear of the Xotalancs who ruled the eastern gate of Xuchotl.  They would drive one red nail for each defeated Xotalanca into the black column beside their leader, Prince Olmec.

Teeth of Gwahlur – Enormous jewels that were the most coveted treasure of Alkmeenon in the jungles of Keshan.  Worth wealth immeasurable, the jewels themselves burned with icy, celestial fire.  They were lost to the river beneath the palace when Conan was forced to choose between the precious stones and the life of Muriela.

Teyanoga – Shaman of the South Hawk Clan of Picts who slew his enemies with black magic in the forests of the Pictish Wilderness.  He was struck by an arrow shot from Gault Hagar’s son.

Thak – Beast with pig-like red eyes and yellow fangs taken from the eastern frontier region of Zamora where the ape-like creatures are few in number.  Though they knew nothing of making fire, shelter, garments, or weapons, they communicated in a primitive form of language.  Residing in the house of Nabonidus like a pet, Thak betrayed his master and killed the Red Priest’s guard dog and house servant, Joka.  He was eventually slain by Conan.

Thalis – the Stygian.  An ivory-skinned princess who was abducted by a rebel Kushite prince.  While invading southward, the rebel prince’s army was decimated by the desert and Thalis herself nearly perished before being rescued by the people of the lost city of Xuthal.  She resided within the city after recovering her strength to become a coveted companion to the men of Xuthal.  She lived there for many years before the arrival of Conan and Natala.  When Conan refused to remain with Thalis and become King of Xuthal, Thalis abducted Natala and took her deep within the city.  While struggling with her captive, Thalis was seized by Thog and devoured.

Than – Prince of the city of Yaralet.

Thandara – Southernmost and fiercely independent province of the Westermarck.  See Fort Thandara.

Thasperas – Baron of Kormon and ruler of Schohira.  When Conan waged war for the crown of Aquilonia, Lord Thasperas allied with the barbarian and withdrew his armies from Schohira.  This allowed Baron Brocas of Torh an opportunity to seize the lands of Thenitea.  However, the army of Thandara came to the aid of the Schohirans.

Thaug – Monster of indescribable horror which dwelt beneath the palace of Khauran after the witch Salome seized power from Queen Taramis.  Salome gorged the creature on numerous human sacrifices until the city was attacked by the army of Conan and riddled with arrows to its death.

Thenitea – Town on Ogaha Creek in Schohira.

Thespides – Count of Khoraja and leader of the five hundred knights of King Khossus.  Thespides aspired to the hand of princess Yasmela, the king’s sister.  Thespides recklessly charged into battle against Natohk’s cult army at the battle of the Pass of Shamla and was presumed dead with the rest of his men.

Thespius – Count of Aquilonia loyal to Valerius who was entrusted with executing Countess Albiona.  He was butchered by King Conan and left to bleed to death before committing the deed.

Theteles – Ophirean of the house of Chelkus.  By special permission of King Ctesphon of Stygia, Theteles was allowed to go to Kheshatta to study sorcery with his sister, Livia.  They were ambushed by Kushites during their journey and taken captive.  The Kushites were later slaughtered by Bakalah raiders who took the captives to King Bajujh.  The Bakalah butchered Theteles before his sister’s eyes.

Thog – the Ancient.  Thog was worshipped as a god in the lost city of Xuthal.  He dwelled in the sunken, innermost dome in the center of the city.  He stalked the passages of Xuthal to prey upon its people for time beyond memory.  The creature lived among the shadows and was partially immune to the effects of illumination.  His face was toad-like and his body had a number of dark, tentacle-like members.  Conan battled the creature to rescue Natala from its clutches and cast the monster into an abyss at the heart of Xuthal.

Thoth-Amon – of the Ring.  Stygian sorcerer whose power is derived from an ancient artifact called the Serpent Ring of Set.  After obtaining the ring, Thoth-Amon was named Stygia’s supreme sorcerer by King Ctesphon and took up residency in the palace of Luxur as Lord of the Black Ring.  During this time Thoth-Amon was the sworn enemy of the priest Kalanthes of Hanumar.  He attempted to murder his rival by sending a Stygian “God in the Bowl” in the guise of a gift, though it was intercepted by the ill-fated Kallian Publico.  Thoth-Amon was reviled by his fellow priests of Set who envied his power, including Thutothmes.  When the Serpent Ring of Set was stolen by a thief, the magicians of Stygia rose up against the vulnerable Thoth-Amon.  He was forced to flee to Koth where he was captured and enslaved by an Aquilonian nobleman named Ascalante.  Learning the identity of his slave, Ascalante coerced the sorcerer to aid in the conspiracy to assassinate King Conan.  Thoth-Amon murdered Dion upon discovering that the ring was in his possession and regained his power as supreme sorcerer.  He used it to summon a giant baboon to exact vengeance upon Ascalante, though it was slain soon after by the king.  Thoth-Amon returned to his place as supreme sorcerer of Stygia with renewed hostility from his rival, Thutothmes.

Thoth-Mekri – Adept of the Black Ring who lived three thousand years prior to the life of Conan.  Thutothmes attempted to raise the mummified remains of Thoth-Mekri with the Heart of Ahriman in order to learn powerful magic to use against Thoth-Amon.  However, the ritual was completed after a Khitai assassin slew Thutothmes.  The spirit guided King Conan to the exit of the pyramid at Khemi before returning to its eternal slumber.

Thrallos – Nemedian monument.  Fountain erected in honor of Thrallos was a prominent feature on the road to Belverus located one mile from the walls of the city.

Thugra Khotan – Dark sorcerer of Stygia three thousand years prior to the time of Conan of Cimmeria.  Thugra Khotan ruled over the northern kingdom of Kuthchemes where festivals were held to honor the serpent god Set with mass beheadings.  The city was eventually sacked by an army of barbarians that drove the Stygians south of the great river Styx, but before it fell Thugra Khotan drank a poison and had himself sealed within a tomb at the center of Kuthchemes.  The barbarians were unable to enter by force or guile and abandoned the ruins to the desert.  After his death, a degraded Zugite cult rose up in worship of Thugra Khotan and stamped his likeness on coins to pay the way of the dead over the river of darkness.  When the crypt of Kuthchemes was disturbed by the thief Shevatas, Thugra Khotan rose again and adopted the title of Natohk, the Veiled One in a revitalized attempt to amass a cult of followers to conquer Hyboria.

Thule – Ancient kingdom of the Thurian age prior to the Great Cataclysm.

Thunder River – River that forms a natural border between the Pictish Wilderness and the Bossonian marches.

Thune – Village in Aquilonia.

Thuria – Large continent of the Pre-Cataclysmic Age and the kingdoms of Kamelia, Valusia, Verulia, Grondar, Thule, and Commoria.  These kingdoms were shattered by the Cataclysm.  The greater Thurian civilization was known for utilizing armies of barbarian mercenaries.  It was quickly dissolved and reformed during the devastation of natural disaster and mass migration resulting from the Cataclysm.

Thutmekri – Stygian adventurer and rogue and frequent adversary to Conan.  Thutmekri allied with the Kingdom of Zembabwei to invade Punt with a host of spearmen.  Claiming intentions of aiding Keshan against its hereditary enemy, Thutmekri secretly sought to exploit the nation.  Upon discovering this plot, Conan vowed to alert the Keshani to Thutmekri’s intentions.

Thutothmes – Stygian priest of Set who stole the Heart of Ahriman from Beloso and murdered him before escaping with the gem to Khemi.  Thutothmes opposed Thoth-Amon, master of the priests of Set, and sought to use the Heart of Ahriman to overpower King Ctesphon’s supreme sorcerer and proclaim himself Lord of the Black Ring.  While attempting to raise the mummified remains of Thoth-Mekri, Thutothmes and his acolytes were slain in battle with Khitai assassins seeking to recover the gem inside the pyramid of Khemi.

Tiberias – Merchant from Velitrium.  His ale-kegs were stolen by Zogar Sag, who was later jailed for the crime.  Zogar Sag avenged himself upon Tiberias by summoning a forest devil to slaughter the merchant.

Tiberias – Lord of Amilius.  Aquilonian nobleman whose sons and daughter were brutally murdered by Valerius after he seized the throne to the kingdom from King Conan following the battle of Valkia.  Tiberias willingly sacrificed his life when he fooled Valerius into leading his men into a secret pass in the Goralian hills before the battle of the Valley of Lions.  When Valerius found himself surrounded by spears in the hands of his tormented subjects, he struck down Tiberias with his sword.  Tiberias laughed as he died for Valerius and his men would not escape the Goralian hills with their lives.

Tiberio – Secretary to Publio of Messantia who was ordered to hire cutthroats to murder King Conan at the House of Servio.  Tiberio himself was cut down in the attempt.

Tibu – Tribe of masked warriors dwelling in the southern desert of Stygia.

Tigress – Pirate vessel captained by Bêlit and sailed by the Black Corsairs.  It raided the Hyborian coastline from Zingara to the Black Kingdoms.  Bêlit typically recruited buccaneers to man the ship from the island kingdoms on the coastline south of the Black Kingdoms.  Conan was recruited by Bêlit when he was the lone survivor of the Argus who fought valiantly against the crew of the Tigress.  He became known as Amra the Lion to his shipmates and sailed as a notorious pirate for many months as a member of its crew.  The crew sought treasure along the Zarkheba River and found an ancient city hidden in the jungles of the Black Kingdoms.  However, they fell prey to the winged-ape creature and his demonic hyenas leaving only Conan alive to avenge his pirate comrades.  The Tigress was ultimately burned as a funeral pyre in honor of its captain and to serve as her final resting place upon the open seas.

Tilutan – Pride of the Ghanatas who was slain in combat for his unsavory intentions with the captive, Lissa, by Amalric.

Tina – Ophirean child and protégée to Lady Belesa of Zingara.

Tito – Master-shipman of the ports of Argos and trader of goods aboard the trade craft Argus.  When the ship was boarded by the crew of the Tigress, Tito fell during the battle with the pirates.

Tlazitlans – Mongrel people who lived on the shores of Lake Zuad near the border of Kush.  More than fifty years before Conan’s arrival in Xuchotl, a Tlazitlan tribe rebelled against the Stygian king to protect Princess Tascela from his grasp.  They fled southward to the Black Kingdoms, where they were pursued by dragons and forced to find shelter in the ancient city of Xuchotl, where they defeated the original inhabitants with the aid of Tolkemec.

Tolkemec – One of the Tlazitlans who was taken as a servant by the once great race of the city of Xuchotl over fifty years before Conan stumbled upon the cursed place.  Tolkemec aided the tribe in storming the gates of the city and massacring its inhabitants.  Those who were not killed were delivered to Tolkemec who repaid his time in slavery with torture.  He divided the city into thirds with the brothers Xuchotl and Tecuhltli and each fortified their respective quarters of the city.  Tolkemec knew many secrets of the city and delved into the crypts of the dead to plunder the secrets of ancient kings and wizards.  His dark arts could not save him as the Tecuhltli stormed his fortifications in the night, butchered his people, and tortured him for many days.  He vanished in the darkness of this subterranean city twelve years prior to Conan’s arrival.  It was said that his spirit haunted the halls of Xuchotl.  This legend became truth when Tolkemec attacked Conan and Valeria with wicked sorcery and received a knife in the breast from the barbarian.

Tombalku – Empire ruled by a wild, barbaric race in Stygia’s southern desert.  The Tombalku had two kings:  Zehbeh and Sakumbe.  The kingdom was constituted by two castes:  the Aphaki and the native Tombalku.  The Aphaki worshipped and sacrificed at the altar of Jhil as the dominant caste, though the natives outnumbered them and worshipped Ajujo.

Torh – City of Aquilonia under Baron Brocas.

Tortage – Pirate city of the Barachan Isles.

Tothmekri – Stygian prince who fled from Khemi and exiled to an island castle with his treasure.  Bloody Tranicos and his Barachan pirates looted that treasure and slew everyone upon that island one hundred years prior to the life of Conan.

Totrasmek – High priest of Hanuman in Zamboula who desired the dancing-girl Zabibi.  He drugged her lover, Alafdhal, and drove him to madness to spite Zabibi.  While torturing Zabibi with the illusory Dance of the Cobras, Conan impaled Totrasmek upon his sword.

Tower of the Elephant – An enormous palace reaching into the sky of the City of Thieves in Zamora as one single tower where Yara the priest dwelled.  It housed the Elephant’s Heart, a jewel capable of granting its owner immense power.  The tower held several walled levels raised above city-level, including one of a beautiful garden with exotic plant life that was protected by guard lions.  The shaft of the tower was seemingly made of silver with a peak crusted with sparkling gems.  Its opulent treasure chamber was protected by nightmarish spider the size of a full-grown pig with searing venom in its fangs.  Conan slew this monster while ascending the tower and ultimately discovering the entity Yag-kosha in its upper chamber.  Conan released the enslaved being and aided in its vengeance against Yara before the entire edifice shattered into shining shards.

Trallibes – Chain of islands off the coast of Zingara.

Tranicos – the Bloody.  Greatest of Barachan pirates who stole the treasure of exiled prince Tothmekri of Stygia from his island castle.  He was rumored to have buried that treasure in a bay on a remote coast and vanished from the world one hundred years prior to the life of Conan.  These rumors brought pirates like Strom and Zarano to the Pictish coast in search of fortune, though the treasure-filled chamber was protected by a poisonous mist rising from fissures in the cavern which claimed the lives of Tranicos and his men.

Tree of Death – Tree in jungles of Khitai with magical properties.  Staves fashioned from the wood of the Tree of Death made powerful weapons that could kill a man with the slightest touch.  The Khitai assassins of Valerius were each armed with one of these staves.  The term was also applied to victims of crucifixion.

Trocero – Count of Poitain and seneschal of Aquilonia under King Conan.  In the event of King Conan’s absence, Count Trocero was appointed to rule over Aquilonia in his stead.  When Prince Arpello seized control of the city, Trocero retreated with his knights to defend Poitain.  He returned with the king to defeat the usurpers at Tamar’s gates.  When King Conan was proclaimed dead after the battle of Valkia many years later, the people of Aquilonia refused to rally behind Trocero as each baron sought to secure his own powerbase.

Tsotha-lanti – Kothian wizard who was said to be the true ruler of Koth.  His palace upon the tallest hill of Khorshemish was known as the Scarlet Citadel and boasted a library filled with scrolls of human flesh where spells and histories were chronicled.  He allied with the Strabonus and Amalrus against King Conan of Aquilonia.  Conan was imprisoned within the Scarlet Citadel and believed dead prior to the massive siege of Shamar by Tsotha-lanti and his allies.  The host was swiftly defeated by the army of King Conan, who hunted down Tsotha and beheaded him.  The severed head was seized by Pelias in the form of a great eagle, the two wizards seemingly locked in an eternal feud, of which Conan gladly quitted himself.

Turan – Resplendent kingdom of Hyrkania ruled during the life of Conan by King Yezdigerd from his palace in Aghrapur.  The kingdom thrived under Yezdigerd’s rule and held tribute from neighboring Zamora, Koth, and Shem.  Its armies warred against Stygia to the south, Hyperborea to the north, and westward to Brythunia, Ophir, Corinthia, and Nemedia.  Turan’s cities had thriving slave trade of women in particular.  Turan dominated the Vilayet Sea along with other Hyrkanian powers.  Its principal religion was worship of Erlik.

Tuthamon – Ancient ruler of Stygia who founded the palace at Luxur ten thousand years before the life of Conan.  He fathered Princess Akivasha, who later became the vampire of the pyramid at Khemi.

Tuthmes – Chaga nobleman from the city of Shumballa who framed the death of Amboola on Princess Tananda.  Tuthmes schemed to dethrone the royal family of Kush in order to seize power.  Among his servants was a snouted beast enthralled to do his bidding.

Tybor River –River on the southern border of Aquilonia located near the city of Shamar.

Upas tree – Tree with vines that bore poisonous fruits.  A cunning method of assassination was to make wine from the fruit of the upas tree.  Hair steeped in upas wine could be made as sturdy as the finest length of rope.

Valannus – Governor of Conajohara stationed at Fort Tuscelan.  Valannus was leading the colonization efforts into the Pictish Wilderness with forces of Aquilonian pikemen and Bossonian archers.  Among these soldiers were hired mercenaries including Conan.  Valannus perished in combat defending Fort Tuscelan from hordes of Picts that swarmed the Aquilonian outpost.

Valannus – Captain of the Pellian spearman who bore a striking resemblance to King Conan.  When Conan was stricken by Xaltotun’s curse, Valannus was called upon by General Pallantides to wear the armor of the king and impersonate him during the battle of Valkia.  Valannus fought nobly during the conflict and drove the Nemedian host of Tarascus to clinch victory between the cliffs of Valkia.  However, the sorcery of Xaltotun brought the cliffs down upon him and five thousand Aquilonian knights to win the day for Tarascus.

Valbroso – Count of a Zingaran estate who sought plunder with his band of rogues.  He captured Zorathus and tortured him in order to obtain the secret to opening the chest holding the Heart of Ahriman.  Zorathus succumbed to his wounds, but not before fooling Valbroso into opening the box and receiving the fatal venom sting of the black Stygian scorpion.

Vale of Lost Women – Valley a short distance from the Bakalah village in the jungle of the Black Kingdoms.  This mystical place was as a blissful garden of white flowers free from the strife brought by men, though the women who fled there were turned to mindless creatures made to worship a god from the Outer Dark who soared above them.

Valenso – Zingaran count who fled from his court at Kordava to Korvela Bay with his retinue.  In his youth, Valenso dealt with a black magician who summoned a fiend in the form of man to slay his competitor for power and influence in Kordava.  The fiend later strangled its summoner and pursued Valenso himself to Korvela Bay and his coastal compound.  Valenso dwelt in luxurious exile.  The interior of his log cabin was an intricate recreation of Korzetta castle.  Valenso’s men fended off pirates and Picts on that beach for many weeks until an alliance of Pictish tribes swarmed over its walls and set the compound ablaze.  Valenso was found hanging from the roof-beam of his cabin by the monstrous black figure that haunted him.  This fiend was crushed beneath a silver bench within the burning hall by Conan.

Valeria – of the Red Brotherhood.  A golden-haired woman from Aquilonia known for her unusual strength and impressive swordmastery.  She was a well-respected mercenary who lent her sword to the likes of the pirate Red Ortho and Zarallo’s Free Companions.  While evading Zarallo’s men, Valeria met with Conan and ventured into the ancient subterranean city of Xuchotl where she battled her way free with the fearless barbarian and slew the witch Tascela in the process.

Valerian – Richest land-owner in western Schohira.  His large estate was known as the Hall.  Valerian communed with various Pict tribes and was discovered to be conspiring with both Kwarada, the witch of Skandaga, and the shaman Teyanoga to wage war on Conan loyalists of the Westermarck.

Valerius – Heir to the dynasty of Namedides in Aquilonia.  Valerius was well-travelled across the lands of Hyboria and beyond.  In Khitan jungles he aided four exiles who became sworn to his service to satisfy the debt to him.  Valerius allied with Tarascus of Nemedia so they may aid one another in seizing power of their respective kingdoms.  He was crowned as king of Aquilonia by Amalric after the rightful King Conan was believed to have been slain at the battle of Valkia.  Valerius levied hefty taxes upon his people and filled his courts with Nemedian lords and soldiers.  When he learned that King Conan still lived, Valerius sent his four Khitan assassins to end his life.  The assassins were killed in their quest, and Valerius himself was slain by revolting Aquilonians when he and his men were lured into the Goralian hills by Tiberias.

Valerius – Khaurani soldier loyal to the true Queen Taramis.  He was commended by her after the Battle of Korveka and aided in Conan’s conquest of the fallen palatial city by rescuing Taramis from the dungeon.  Valerius impaled Salome upon his sword during their escape attempt.

Valhalla – Opulent hall where dwelled the gods of the northern peoples of the Aesir and the Vanir.

Valkia – Valley in eastern Aquilonia where the armies of Nemedia and Aquilonia converged after King Tarascus declared war on King Conan.  Conan suffered utter defeat when he was paralyzed by Xaltotun’s dark magic and Valannus was forced to disguise himself as the king and lead Aquilonia’s army on the battlefield.  Valannus fought well, but he was lured into a trap set by Xaltotun.  While routing the Nemedian forces, Valannus brought his men between the rocky cliffs of Valkia.  Xaltotun used his powers to shatter the peaks and bury the Aquilonians beneath them.

Valley of Lions – Ravine amidst the Goralian hills in northern Aquilonia.  The Valley of Lions was the location of numerous battles in Aquilonian history, including the decisive victory of King Conan over the combined forces of the despotic rulers of Tarascus and Valerius.

Valusia – Westernmost kingdom of the Thurian continent during the Pre-Cataclysmic Age.

Vanaheim – Northern nation of Hyboria inhabited by a robust, red-headed people known as the Vanir.

Vanir – Peoples of Vanaheim in northern Hyboria.  They were characterized by their red hair, impressive height, and warlike nature.

Vateesa – Daughter of an Ophirean priest who fled with him to Khoraja to escape persecution.  She befriended princess Yasmela and convinced her to seek Mitra’s aid when threatened by the shadow of Natohk.

Vathelos – the Blind.  Author of forbidden, ironbound books that detailed such horrors as those of the cult of Thugra Khotan.

Velitrium – Aquilonian city on the banks of Thunder River that was frequently threatened by Pictish raiders.

Venarium – Fort town established at the border of Cimmeria by the forces of Gunderland at the behest of their Aquilonian masters.  The invading Gundermen prompted the Cimmerian clans to unite and raze the city and its people to smoldering ruins.  Conan was among the victorious Cimmerians, despite the fact that he was less than fifteen years old.

Vendhya – Far eastern region characterized by wide, sun beaten plains beyond the Vilayet Sea and the Himelian mountains to the south of Khitai.  Vendhya frequently warred with its neighboring Himelia and Ghulistan.  The kingdom of Vendhya was ruled by Bhunda Chand from the palace at Ayodhya during the life of Conan, though the king was murdered by the sorcery of the Black Seers.

Venturer – Merchant ship out of Messantia in Argos that was captained by Demetrio.  Its slaves revolted to kill their masters and follow King Conan on his quest for the Heart of Ahriman.

Verulia – Hyborian nation.

Vezek – Turanian outpost which tolled the desert caravan routes in the eastern desert.

Vilayet – Great sea east of Turan and west of Hyrkania that formed a natural border to the Hyborian continent.  It was called a “Hyrkanian pond,” denoting the great influence held by the eastern nations over that region.  All islands of the Vilayet sea were characterized by peculiar blocks of green stone from which towering edifices were erected in eons past.

Vilerus – King of Aquilonia during Conan’s younger years.  Father of Namedides who bestowed the crown to his son upon his death.

Volmana – Dwarfish count of Karaban and conspirer against King Conan.  During the assassination attempt on the king’s life, Volmana was slain by the axe-wielding king.

Wadai – Tribe of men from the Black Kingdoms.

Warhorse River – Southern river in the Westermarck where Fort Thandara was settled.

Wastrel – Infamous ship of Argosian and Zingaran Freebooters captained by Zaporavo until he was slain by Conan, who took the vessel and its crew for his own to seek adventure and plunder.

Wazam – Aged Vendhyan nobleman whose abundant experience resulted in a promotion to advisor of the royal family.

Wazuli – Khurum tribesmen.

Westermarck – Region between the Pictish Wilderness and the Bossonian Marches.  Its provinces were ruled by royal patent and loyal to barons who answered to the king of Aquilonia.

Wulfhere – Aesir warrior who led an ill-fated assault against the Vanir led by Bragi.  Both forces were decimated in the battle.  The sole survivor was a Cimmerian mercenary enlisted by Wulfhere named Conan.

Xaltotun – of Python in Acheron.  High priest of Set who manipulated dark magic to rule over his subjects and prolong his life to nearly five hundred years.  He lived three thousand years prior to the life of Conan at the pinnacle of Acheronian civilization.  Xaltotun’s rule was ended when barbarians stole the Heart of Ahriman from him, forcing him to retreat to his house in the city of Khemi in Stygia.  It was here that he was betrayed by his own priests, who poisoned and mummified his body.  Xaltotun was resurrected by Orastes three thousand years later to aid in defeating the kings of Nemedia and Aquilonia with the conspirators Valerius, Tarascus, and Amalric.  Xaltotun used his sorcery to defeat the Aquilonian army at the battle of Valkia where King Conan was taken prisoner.  Fearing Xaltotun’s power, Tarascus stole the Heart of Ahriman from him in order to have it disposed of at the bottom of the ocean.  Xaltotun attempted to crush the Aquilonian rebellion against Valerius.  However, his magic was helpless to the power of Hadrathus once King Conan delivered the Heart of Ahriman to the priest of Asura.  Hadrathus used the gem to return Xaltotun to his mummified state upon the King’s Altar.  The mummy was then taken back to the lost realm of Acheron.

Xapur – the Fortified.  Castellated, uninhabited island in the southern region of the Vilayet sea.  It featured ruins of a long lost kingdom of Dagonia.

Xotalanc – Section of Xuchotl located by the eastern gate.  Its people were ruled by wizards of dark magic.  The Xotalancs were locked in constant warfare with the inhabitants of the western gate of Xuchotl who were called the Tecuhltli.

Xuchotl – Ancient city in the Black Kingdoms built like a giant palace under one massive roof.  It was bisected by an enormous hall that connects the northern gate to the southern gate.  It was home to a declining civilization until a wandering tribe of Tlazitlans seized the city with the aid of Tolkemec.  Later, these rulers succumbed to infighting and divided into three warring factions named for their leaders:  Tolkemec, Xotalanc, and Tecuhltli.  The people of Tolkemec were hated enemies to all and were butchered twelve years before the coming of Conan.  The halls and chambers between the eastern gate (Xotalanc) and the western gate (Tecuhltli) are a disputed region between the two factions called the Halls of Silence.

Xuthal – Lost city of the southern desert beyond the borders of Stygia.  It was pinnacled with shining domes and minarets and built upon an oasis, though by the time of Conan all roads leading to Xuthal had long been drowned by the desert sands.  An expanse of chambers tunneled deep beneath the city, where lived the people of Xuthal who were known for their yellow-tinted skin and descendants of ancient migrants from the far east.  These ancestors were genius scientists who mastered such inventions as the touch-activated, radium-infused jewels used to light the dim city passages and the golden wine capable of healing wounds and prolonging life.  Despite their dependence on these luxuries, the descendants of Xuthal’s founders lost most of their great knowledge and spent the majority of their waking lives in hallucinations induced by their cultivated supplies of black lotus plants.

Yag – the Accursed.  A green planet whose seeds drifted through the black cosmos to blossom as fiendish monstrosities like the dreaded plant Yothga upon the Earth.  Yag-kosha and his allies hailed from this world.  They warred with the kings of Yag, but were ultimately defeated and outcast.

Yag-kosha – Once known as Yogah of Yag, Yag-kosha was an extraterrestrial entity from the green planet of Yag.  His head resembled that of an elephant with prominent white tusks tipped with round golden balls, wide flaring ears, and a curling proboscis.  He and his allies fled from Yag after losing a war against its kings.  When they arrived upon the Earth, their wings withered from their shoulders and they were forever destined to remain in the realm of men.  They witnessed the evolution of mankind and the rise of its earliest civilizations.  Yag-kosha, the last survivor of his kin, was worshipped as a god by the ancient people of Khitai before his imprisonment by Yara the priest in the Tower of the Elephant in the City of Thieves in Zamora.  Yara used Stygian spellcraft to force Yag-kosha to reveal the key to turning his own power against him.  Yag-kosha was forced to build the Tower of the Elephant for his master where Yara tortured and enslaved him within its uppermost chambers.  Conan discovered him there and freed his tortured body from unending slavery before enacting a final vengeance against his captor.

Yajur – God worshipped by the sons of Kosala in Yota-pong.  Sacrifices to Yajur were made by lives taken with one’s bare hands.  Stranglers were trained specifically for this purpose in Yota-pong.

Yar Afzal – Wazuli chief of Khurum.  Conan once saved his life, which indebted the Wazuli to the Cimmerian afterward when he sought refuge with his captive, Devi Yasmina.  Yar Afzal was murdered by the trickery of Khemsa who presented a gift to the chief that was, in fact, a deadly spider.

Yara – the priest.  He lived in the City of Thieves in Zamora within the Tower of the Elephant where he kept the Elephant’s Heart, a jewel that granted him great powers.  He was said to have eternal life and the ability to transform his enemies into vile forms.  Yara’s power came from the entity Yag-kosha, which he discovered in the jungles of Khitai.  Yara forced the entity to reveal the secrets of his power which enabled its own enslavement at the hands of the fiendish priest.  Yara’s tower was filled with invaluable treasures that attracted many thieves including Conan.  Conan infiltrated the tower, outmaneuvered and overpowered Yara’s guards, and released Yag-kosha from his captivity.  Yag-kosha’s final enchantment over the Elephant’s Heart allowed Conan to capture Yara within the jewel before it vanished in a burst of light.

Yaralet – City of silence from dusk until dawn whose people were superstitious and paranoid for fear of shadowy beings haunting its streets after nightfall.

Yare – First mate to Captain Tito of the Argus.  He was slain in battle with the Tigress.

Yasmela – Sister to the king of Khoraja, a kingdom forged by Kothian adventurers who conquered an eastern swath of Shem.  While her brother was abducted by the king of Ophir, Princess Yasmela ruled in his stead.  When the shadow of Natohk threatened to abduct her, Yasmela sought the counsel of Mitra.  A voice in Mitra’s temple commanded her to put her kingdom’s future in the hands of the first man she met on the streets of Khoraja’s capital.  It is in this way that she met the mercenary Conan of Cimmeria and made him commander of the armies of Khoraja.  Yasmela was abducted by Natohk at the end of the Battle of Shamla Pass and taken to the ruins of Kuthchemes.  However, she was quickly rescued by Conan after he slew the sorcerer.

Yasmina – Devi of Vendhya and sister to King Bhunda Chand.  When the king was assassinated by necromantic powers, Yasmina sought the aid of governor Chunder Shan to attack the Black Seers in Himelia with one fearless and cunning to lead them.  Before they could parley with Conan, leader of the Afghuli tribe, he stole into the fort and abducted Devi Yasmina for ransom against his seven imprisoned tribesmen.  She was later stolen away by the Black Seers, prompting Conan to mount a rescue.

Yasunga – Black Corsair who sailed under Amra the Lion before being taken as a slave by Captain Demetrio of the Venturer.  He rallied to Conan in order to sail as a Black Corsair once again after revolting against their slave masters.

Yateli – Princess of ancient Dagon who was murdered during the revolt of the Yuetshi slaves one thousand years prior to the life of Conan until the magic of Khosatral Khel resurrected the island’s palatial ruins.  When the barbarian defeated the island’s master, all of Dagon including Yateli returned to dust and ruin.

Yelaya – Princess and oracle of the Keshani people.  The last ruler of Alkmeenon before the city fell to decay many epochs past, it is said that Princess Yelaya still endures to receive worshippers of Keshan.  Her preserved body is both slender and voluptuous with the appearance of alabaster skin.

Yellow lotus – Fragrant, exotic plant.  When its essence was distilled and inhaled, one would enter a powerful, hallucinatory mental state.

Yezud – City in the far east where temples were built to worship a spider god.

Yezdigerd – Prince of Turan during the life of Conan who succeeds his father as King.  He ruled from the city of Aghrapur.  His palace was heaped with the plunder of empires and his fleets of purple-sailed war galleys dominated the western Vilayet.  Yezdigerd allied with the Black Seers in the Himelian mountains against the kingdom of Vendhya.

Yildiz – King of Turan during the life of Conan, father to Yezdigerd.

Yimsha – Mountain in Himelia ruled from the castle of the Black Seers.  A crimson cloud sometimes appeared over the pinnacle and floated out across the sky.  The hill-men called this phenomenon “Yimsha’s carpet.”

Yizil – Himelian god of death and misfortune.

Ymir – “The Frost Giant,” God of the warrior races of the Aesir and Vanir.

Yog – Lord of Empty Abodes.  Desert dwelling peoples east of Stygia worshipped this god of devouring fire.

Yogah of Yag – See Yag-kosha.

Yota-pong – Capital city of Kosala.

Yothga – Nightmarish plant with petals like the hood of a cobra.  It seizes its victims with clinging branches.  The roots of the Yothga are said to be set in hell.  One such plant was used by Tsotha-lanti to restrain his nemesis Pelias in the depths of his dungeon.

Yuetshi – Fishing people who dwelled on the southern shores of the Vilayet sea.  They used saw-edged, crescent knives that could disembowel a man with a single stroke.  The Yuetshi descend from slaves conquered by the ancient rulers of Xapur who called themselves Dagonians.  They rebelled when their priest procured a knife forged from meteorite fragments which made the magic of Khosatral Khel impotent.

Yun – God worshipped in the jungles of Khitai.

Zabibi – Dancing-girl of Zamboula who claimed to perform for the royalty of the city including Jungir Khan and Nafertari.  She fell in love with a Turanian soldier named Alafdhal.  Coveted by high priest Totrasmek, Zabibi narrowly escaped death at the hands of her lover and the cannibal slaves in the streets of Zamboula before she was rescued by Conan.  In truth, she sought to steal a ring from Alafdhal which bore the Star of Khorala while he slept from Totrasmek’s potion.  She was rescued from Totrasmek by Conan.  See Nafertari.

Zaheemi – Clan dwelling in the desert to the south of the Kothian uplands.  Their sole duty was to protect the caravan road stretching between Khoraja and the Well of Altaku.

Zamboula – Trading-town built into a city by Stygians in the Kharamun desert that was conquered by Jungir Khan as Turan’s westernmost outpost.  The Sword-Makers’ Bazar was one of its primary attractions.  However, the streets at night were plagued by cannibal slaves from Darfar who were allowed to feast upon unsuspecting prey.

Zamora – Nation of Hyboria well-known for its expert thieves and founded by the Zhemri.  Despite their reputation as thieves, the Zamorans were also well-regarded for their fidelity.

Zang – Priest of Khauran and loyal servant to the witch Salome.  He was sent with Constantius to report on the battle with Conan, though he was slain in the ensuing rout.

Zapayo da Kova – Zingaran prince who led a mercenary army for Koth during its war with Stygia following an alliance with Argos.  The combined armies defeated the Stygian fleet and raided the Stygian frontier until Koth betrayed its ally by brokering peace with Stygia.  The invading armies were vanquished and Zapayo’s forces scattered.

Zaporaska River – Great river bisecting the plains of Hyrkania.  It flowed from the southeast corner of the Vilayet sea toward distant Khitai and Vendhya.

Zaporavo – the Hawk.  A tall Zingaran of hawk-like features and captain of the Wastrel and its crew of Freebooters.  Zaporavo famously raided the city of Kordava and abducted the Duke’s daughter, Sancha.  He was fascinated with ancient lore and spent much of his time poring over the parchment and tomes that riddled his cabin.  While searching for treasures on the Isle of the Black Ones detailed in the Book of Skelos, Zaporavo perished in a duel with Conan.

Zarallo – Leader of Zarallo’s Free Companions, a band of kozaki raiders that roamed the Stygian frontiers.  While striking into the borders of Darfar, Conan and Valeria of the Red Brotherhood deserted his ranks.  Zarallo’s men pursued them into the jungles of the Black Kingdom to no avail.

Zarkheba – River flowing through Black Kingdoms.  The name literally translated as “Death” as the water itself bore the aspect of obsidian.  An ancient city and relic of a forgotten civilization lay at the end of the Zarkheba River that was discovered by the crew of the Tigress.

Zargheba – Mercenary from Shem allied with Thutmekri.  He employed a dancing girl named Muriela to fool the Keshani priests into exposing the Teeth of Gwahlur, but met an unfortunate end in the palace of Alkmeenon where he was beheaded by the servants of BȊt-Yakin.

Zarono – the Black.  Freebooter pirate captain famed in the royal court of Kordava in Zingara.  He followed Strom to Korvela Bay in search of the treasure of Tranicos, but fell to a war-ax during the chaotic onslaught on Valenso’s compound by an alliance of Pictish tribes.

Zehbeh – One of the two kings of Tombalku in the southern desert of Stygia.

Zelata – Witch who commanded creatures of nature including a great wolf and an eagle.  She was to be hanged by Nemedian soldiers outside of Belverus when she was rescued by King Conan.  She returned the favor by guiding him through visions in order to aid him in the knowledge of how to reclaim his throne.  Zelata returned to aid King Conan further with her great wolf at her side when she confronted Xaltotun at the King’s Altar during the battle of the Valley of Lions.

Zembabwei – Southeastern nation of Hyboria strong in trade and ruled by Twin-Kings.

Zenobia –of King Tarascus’s seraglio.  Zenobia was a young girl when she witnessed King Conan’s ride through the streets of Belverus to visit to King Nimed.  She admitted to falling in love with him in that moment.  Years later when she learned that he was taken prisoner by Xaltotun and brought to the dungeons of Belverus, she stole a set of keys and a knife to aid in his escape.  When King Conan avenged himself upon his enemies at the battle of the Valley of Lions, he took Tarascus captive and ransomed him to Nemedia in return for Zenobia’s life.  King Conan vowed to make her queen of Aquilonia.

Zhaibar – Himelian valley through which the principal road of Vendhya extended.  This road connected the capital of Khosala to Ayodhya and beyond into the Himelians in the north.  The peoples of this region used yard-long knives that bore the name of their region.

Zhemri – Ancient, nomadic peoples who settled in the land that later became known as Zamora.

Zingara – Western nation of Hyboria south of the Pictish Wilderness known for its primary geographic feature in the valley of Zingg.  Zingara was established after invading tribes of Picts conquered and mixed with the native people of the region.  The fiend-haunted swamps of Zingara hosted vile creatures of Jhebbal Sag like giant snakes.  As a coastal nation, Zingara was known for its thriving sea trade and piracy by the self-proclaimed Freebooters.  It was also a victim of frequent raids from pirates of the Barachan Isles.  The nation was ruled from the palace in Kordava.

Zingelito – Ship master employed by Count Valenso and former Zingaran buccaneer.  Their vessel sank during a storm while the passengers and crew were ashore.  Zingelito was beheaded by Picts while venturing into the forest beyond the camp at Korvela Bay in search of the treasure of Tranicos.

Zingg – Broad valley protected by great mountains where nameless primitives akin to Shemites evolved an agricultural system and existence.  A tribe of Picts invaded and the eventual kingdom of Zingara was born from the mixing of these peoples.

Zogar Sag – Pictish wizard who dwelled in Gwawela along the Black River in the Pictish Wilderness.  He worshipped the god Jhebbal Sag and could command all beasts who share in its primordial memory.  Zogar Sag sought to avenge himself upon the Aquilonians that imprisoned him for stealing ale from the merchant Tiberias.  To this end, Zogar Sag summoned demons to hunt his enemies in the forests of Conajohara and return with their heads to his altar.  He used such blood magic to link his vitality to that of a swamp demon summoned to hunt Conan.  With unrivaled rage and cunning, the wizard was able to unite over a dozen clans of Picts to wage war on Aquilonia at Fort Tuscelan.  While storming the outpost, Zogar Sag suddenly collapsed in a lifeless heap despite the fact that he was completely unscathed.  The swamp demon that shared his vitality was slain in the wilderness by none other than Conan.  Despite their victory at Fort Tuscelan, the Picts were unable to penetrate the walls of Velitrium.

Zorathus – Kothian merchant who purchased the Heart of Ahriman from a bandit who slew the errand boy of Tarascus tasked with disposing of the source of Xaltotun’s power.  Zorathus was captured by Valbroso and tortured to death, though he was able to execute a final vengeance upon his murderer before his last breath.

Zuad – Lake near the border of Kush.

Zuagir – Desert men who live by plundering caravans in the lands between Khauran and Turan.

Zug – Degraded cult that rose up in worship of the ancient sorcerer Thugra Khotan.  The Zugites were well-known across western Hyboria for stamping his likeness on coins to pay the way of the dead over the river of darkness.
