!! Страны Хайбории

The Hyborian Age is the fictional period within the artificial mythology created by Robert E. Howard in which the sword and sorcery tales of Conan the Barbarian are set.

The Hyborian Age was devised by author Robert E. Howard as the post-Atlantean setting of his Conan the Cimmerian stories, designed to fit in with Howard's previous and lesser known tales of Kull, which were set in the Thurian Age at the time of Atlantis. The name "Hyborian" is a contraction of the Greek concept of the land of "Hyperborea", literally "Beyond the North Wind". This was a mythical place far to the north that was not cold and where things did not age.

Howard's Hyborian epoch, described in his essay The Hyborian Age, is a mythical time before any civilization known to anthropologists. Its setting is prehistoric Europe and North Africa (with occasional references to Asia and other continents).

On a map Howard drew conceptualizing the Hyborian Age, his vision of the Mediterranean Sea is dry. The Nile, which he renamed the River Styx, takes a westward turn at right angles just beyond the Nile Delta, plowing through the mountains so as to be able to reach the Straits of Gibraltar. Although his Black Sea is also dry, his Caspian Sea, which he renames the Vilayet Sea, extends northward to reach the Arctic Ocean, so as to provide a barrier to encapsulate the settings of his stories. Not only are his Baltic Sea and English Channel dry, but most of the North Sea and a vast region to the west, easily including Ireland, are, too. Meanwhile, the west coast of Africa on his map lies beneath the sea.

%thumb%Attach:ThuriaWorldMap.jpg%% %thumb%Attach:1_5c792820572059230d8996847665859f.jpg%%
Турийская эра

%thumb%Attach:HyboriaMapByLex.gif%%
Запад Турийского материка в Хайборийскую эру

%thumb%Attach:HyboriaRus.png%%
Турийский материк

%thumb%Attach:Maphyboria.jpg%%
An illustration of The Hyborian Age primarily based upon a map hand-drawn by Robert E. Howard in March 1932.

%thumb%Attach:Hyboria_map1950.jpg%%
Another version of the map, drawn by David Kyle for the 1950 Gnome Press edition of Conan the Conqueror.

%thumb%Attach:map.gif%%

%thumb%Attach:Chrysagon_Hyboria_1024.jpg%%
A larger map of Earth in Robert E. Howard's Hyborian Age.

Многие страны Хайборийской эры имеют прототипы из реального мира.

(:childlist:)

!!! Etymology

In his fantasy setting of the Hyborian Age, Howard created imaginary kingdoms to which he gave names from a variety of mythological and historical sources. Khitai is his version of China, lying far to the east, Corinthia is his name for a Hellenistic civilization, a name derived from the city of Corinth and reminiscent of the imperial fief of Carinthia in the Middle Ages. Howard imagines the Hyborian Picts occupying a large area in the northwest. The probable intended analogues are listed below; notice that the analogues are sometimes very generalized, and are portrayed by non-historical stereotypes. Most of these correspondences are drawn from "Hyborian Names", an appendix featured in Conan the Swordsman by L. Sprague de Camp and Lin Carter.

Other geographic features

!!!! Amir Jehun Pass

Takes its name from a combination of the Amu Darya river and the Gihon river (Jayhoun in Arabic), which has been identified by some with the Amu Darya. Perhaps corresponds to the Broghol Pass, which is near the headwaters of the Amu Darya in Wakhan.	

!!!! The Himelian Mountains

Take their name from the Himalayas but correspond more closely to the Hindu Kush or Karakoram ranges.

!!!! The Karpash Mountains

The Carpathian Mountains.

!!!! The Poitanian Mountains

The Pyrenees, which are just south of the Aquitaine region of France.

!!!! The River Styx

The River Styx runs northward through Stygia, following the course of the historical Nile river. Then it turns and runs westward through Shem, following the historical Mediterranean Sea, finally emptying into the western ocean. Styx, in classical mythology, is the River of the Dead and this symbolism is used in The Hour of the Dragon.

!!!! The River Alimane

Alamana river, (present Spercheios) in Greece. It may also be a reference to the Alemanni.

!!!! Vilayet Sea

Geographically, the Caspian Sea. The name comes from vilayet, the term for administrative regions in the Ottoman Empire.

!!!! Zhaibar Pass

The Khyber Pass which has been the traditional borderline between Afghanistan and Pakistan.

!!!! Zaporoska River

The Dnieper river and/or the Don and/or the Volga. The river's name was probably influenced by Zaporizhian Sich, a settlement of the Ukrainian Cossacks in Zaporizhzhia (region). It was situated on the Dnieper river, below the Dnieper rapids (porohy, poroz.a), hence the name, translated as "territory beyond the rapids".
