!! Ролевые игры

Ролевые игры

(:childlist:)

* Ролевые игры
** Western RPGs and Japanese RPGs (JRPGs)
** Role-playing Choices
** Use of fantasy in RPGs
** Sandbox RPGs
** Action RPGs
** MMORPGs
** Rogue RPGs
** Tactical RPGs
** Тактические RPG

!!! Role-playing

Main article: Role-playing video game

See also: History of role-playing video games

Role-playing video games draw their gameplay from traditional role-playing games like Dungeons & Dragons. Most of these games cast the player in the role of one or more "adventurers" who specialize in specific skill sets (such as melee combat or casting magic spells) while progressing through a predetermined storyline. Many involve manoeuvring these character(s) through an overworld, usually populated with monsters, that allows access to more important game locations, such as towns, dungeons, and castles. Since the emergence of affordable home computers coincided with the popularity of paper and pencil role-playing games, this genre was one of the first in video games and continues to be popular today. Gameplay elements strongly associated with RPGs, such as statistical character development through the acquisition of experience points, have been widely adapted to other genres such as action-adventure games. Though nearly all of the early entries in the genre were turn-based games, many modern role-playing games progress in real-time. Thus, the genre has followed the strategy game's trend of moving from turn-based to real-time combat. The move to real-time combat began with the release of Square's (now Square Enix's) Final Fantasy IV, the first game to use the Active Time Battle system; this was quickly followed by truly real-time role-playing games such as the Mana series, Soul Blazer and Ultima VII. Some throwbacks to older turn based system did exist such as the Golden Sun series for Game Boy Advance.

!!!! Western RPGs and Japanese RPGs (JRPGs)

Cultural differences in role-playing video games have caused RPGs to tend towards two sets of characteristics sometimes referred to as Western and Japanese RPGs (also referred to as "JRPG" or "JRPGs"). The first (Western RPGs) often involves the player creating a character and a non-linear storyline along which the player makes his own decisions. In the second type (JRPGs), the player controls a party of predefined characters through a dramatically scripted linear storyline (though there are additional features such as Xenoblade Chronicles which contains action elements and sandbox environments, and The Last Story which incorporates stealth gameplay and strategy). There are described advantages to -and dedicated fans of each system, including fans of Western RPGs in East Asia and Japanese RPGs in Europe/North America. Western RPGs include the Fallout series and Elder Scrolls series, while JRPGs include the Final Fantasy series and Dragon Quest series.

!!!! Role-playing Choices

Some RPGs give the player several choices in how their story goes and such. Typically the player can effect if a character dies or whether they kill an enemy or simply knock them out non-lethally, one example being Dishonored. These are very popular to gamers because they have to deal with the consequences of their own choices, rather than the game's developer's, whenever they fail to save someone or don't get the ending they desired. This gives a much more interactive experience between gamers and gameplay thus also explaining their popularity. One notable example is the Mass Effect series, another is the Elder Scrolls series.

!!!! Use of fantasy in RPGs

Due to RPG origins with Dungeons and Dragons and other pen and paper role-playing games, the most popular setting for RPGs by far is a fantasy world, usually with heavy medieval European influences with Diablo series (by Blizzard), Final Fantasy series, Elder Scrolls series and Baldur's Gate series (all different kinds of RPGs) all sharing a basic fantasy setting. However exceptions do exist, with some more notable ones being the east Asian Jade Empire setting, and the science fiction settings of Knights of the Old Republic and Mass Effect by Bioware. The Fallout series is set in a post-apocalyptic retro-futuristic America in which nuclear war destroyed a world in which culture had never advanced beyond that of the 1950s.

!!!! Sandbox RPGs

Sandbox RPGs or Open World allow the player a huge amount of freedom and usually contain a somewhat realistic free-roaming (meaning the player is not confined to a single path restricted by rocks or fences etc.) world. Sandbox RPGs are almost always western rather than Japanese and contain similarities to other sandbox games such as the Grand Theft Auto series with a large number of interactable NPCs, large amount of content and typically some of the largest worlds to explore and longest playtimes of all RPGs due to an impressive amount of secondary content not critical to the game's main storyline. Sandbox RPGs often attempt to emulate an entire region of their setting. Popular examples of this small subgenre include Ultima series by Origin Systems, Wasteland by Interplay Entertainment, System Shock 2 by Irrational Games and Looking Glass Studios, Deus Ex by Ion Storm, The Elder Scrolls and Fallout series by Bethesda Softworks and Interplay Entertainment, Fable by Lionhead Studios, Minecraft owned by Microsoft, and the Gothic series by Piranha Bytes.

!!!! Action RPGs

The action role-playing game or action RPG is a type of role-playing video game which incorporates elements from action games or action-adventure games. The first action role-playing games were produced by Nihon Falcom in the 1980s, such as the Dragon Slayer series and Ys series. Later so-called "Diablo clones" are also part of this genre. Although the precise definition of the genre varies, the typical action RPG features a heavy emphasis on combat, often simplifying or removing non-combat attributes and statistics and the effect they have on the character's development. Additionally, combat always takes place using a real-time system (hence the "action") that relies on the player's ability to perform particular actions with speed and accuracy to determine success, rather than mainly using the player character's attributes to determine this. Typically action RPGs focus more on the collection of randomized treasure than story progression that is found in other types of RPGs.

!!!! MMORPGs

Massively multiplayer online role-playing games, or MMORPGs, emerged in the mid to late 1990s as a commercial, graphical variant of text-based MUDs, which had existed since 1978. By and large, MMORPGs feature the usual RPG objectives of completing quests and strengthening one's player character, but involve up to hundreds of players interacting with each other on the same persistent world in real-time. The massively multiplayer concept was quickly combined with other genres. Fantasy MMORPGs like The Lord of the Rings Online: Shadows of Angmar, remain the most popular type of MMOG, with the most popular "pay-to-play" game being World of Warcraft (by Blizzard), which holds over 60% of the MMORPG market, and the most popular free game being RuneScape (by Jagex), yet other types of MMORPG are appearing. Sci-fi MMORPGs, which began with Phantasy Star Online, hold a smaller part of the MMOG market, with the popular space sci-fi game EVE Online being the most notable. Other massively multiplayer online games which do not have a conventional RPG setting include Second Life and Ingress.

!!!! Rogue RPGs

The roguelike video game subgenre borrows its name and gameplay elements from the 1980 computer game Rogue. Superficially, a roguelike is a two-dimensional dungeon crawl with a high degree of randomness and an emphasis on statistical character development. Though traditionally featuring a text user interface, many such games utilize graphic tiles to overcome character set limitations.

!!!! Tactical RPGs

The tactical role-playing game subgenre principally refers to games which incorporate gameplay from strategy games as an alternative to traditional RPG systems. Like standard RPGs, the player controls a finite party and battles a similar number of enemies, but this genre incorporates strategic gameplay such as tactical movement on an isometric grid. The genre has its origins in tabletop role-playing games, where each player has time to decide his or her character's action.

Ролевые игры[править | править вики-текст]
Основная статья: Компьютерная ролевая игра
Характерные признаки ролевой игры (англ. Role playing game, RPG):

У главного героя (героев) и других персонажей и врагов (чаще в меньшей степени) присутствует некоторое количество параметров (умений, характеристик, навыков), которые определяют их силу и способности. Обычно, главная характеристика персонажей и врагов - это уровень, который определяет общую силу персонажа и определяет доступные навыки и предметы экипировки. Все эти параметры надо совершенствовать путём убийства других персонажей и врагов, выполнением заданий и использованием этих самых навыков.
Присутствует проработанный и обширный мир, сильная сюжетная линия, разветвлённые диалоги с разными вариантами ответов, множество разных персонажей со своими целями и характерами.
Большое количество разных предметов: экипировки, зелий, артефактов и т. д.
Поджанры
action RPG — ролевая игра с шутерной или слэшерной боевой системой, включает в себя сложные квесты и развитую систему прокачки.
Примеры: Mass Effect, Deus Ex, Gothic, The Elder Scrolls.

Hack'n'Slash RPG — ролевая игра с акцентом на истребление врагов, собирание наиболее мощных вещей, прокачку характеристик. Обычно имеют упрощённый мир и сюжет, небольшое количество диалогов и вариантов решения квестов и других задач.
Примеры: Diablo, Dungeon Siege, Titan Quest.

true RPG (также просто RPG или CRPG) — ролевая игра с большим количеством диалогов, глубокой ролевой системой, свободой в выборе путей решения различных задач, проработанным миром и сюжетом.
Примеры: Fallout, Planescape: Torment, Baldur's Gate, Dragon Age: Origins.

JRPG — (Японская РПГ) ролевая игра с проработанным миром и диалогами, но с меньшей свободой выбора, чаще всего имеет очень увлекательный, но линейный сюжет, отсутствие выбора в прокачке характеристик персонажа, а также очень проработанных и красивых персонажей. Игра чем-то похожа на интерактивную книгу. Чаще всего создаётся японскими разработчиками, и существует очень мало игр такого рода, созданных за пределами Японии.
Примеры: Final Fantasy, Dragon Quest.

Тактические RPG[править | править вики-текст]
Основная статья: Тактическая ролевая игра
Жанр ролевых игр, который является смесью с пошаговой стратегией. Игрок управляет небольшой группой воинов, хотя в некоторых тактических RPG их число может доходить до нескольких десятков. Первые тактические RPG появились на консолях в Японии. Сегодня, однако, много и западных тактических ролевых игр.

Примеры:

Серия Knights of the Old Republic
Игра Fallout Tactics из серии Fallout
Серия Jagged Alliance
Серия Silent Storm
Серия X-COM (UFO)
Горький 17 и Горький 18
Серия Dragon Age
Примеры консольных тактических RPG:

серия Ogre Battle Saga
серия Front Mission
серия Fire Emblem
игра Final Fantasy Tactics
серия Langrisser
серия Shining Force
серия Valkyria Chronicles