!! Command Authority (Рассекречено в 113)

После многих лет пребывания в ВД в Фронтире к власти приходят хунта во главе с президентом Волли Вальдерсом, что приводит к резкому обострению отношений с Союзом. ЦРУ уничтожает на Фронтире всю организованную преступность, не тронув лишь крупнейшую группировку «Семь сильных людей», которую превращает в своё тайное подразделение. Претензии Вальдерса на восстановление Старого Фронтира приводят к агрессии против Атви, которая, впрочем, продлилась всего пять часов в связи с прибытием войск ВД. После этого Вальдерс разрабатывает более тонкий план, направленный на захват Ацтекии. Организовав убийство дружественно настроенного к Союзу директора ФБР Стенли Брикса, Вальдерс получает повод для объединения ФБР и ЦРУ. Отравлен полонием-210 Сем Холлуей. Боевики «Семи сильных людей», возглавляемые мафиозо Деннисом Нестерсом по кличке «Гейб Батчер» дестабилизируют ситуацию в Ацтекии. Населению массово раздаются паспорта Фронтира. В Теночтилане профронтирскими активистами захвачена тайная база КГБ. Организовав убийство лидера ведущей профронтирской партии Ацтекии Мусумы Заолилан и теракт на профронтирском митинге в Чиаху, ЦРУ дает Вальдерсу повод начать вторжение в Ацтекию. Союзный спецназ помогает ацтекской армии, однако об участии союзных войск речи не идет и шансов отразить нападение нет. Тем временем, Евгений Раин анализирует события тридцатилетней давности и приходит к выводу, что директор ЦРУ Рональд Талан — полулегендарный фронтирский убийца «Зиппер», причастный к загадочному делу с похищением 204 миллионов долларов в ЦРУ в 85 году. Сын Раина Евгений-младший выясняет, что эти деньги были украдены Вальдерсом, который в 90-е основал первый на Фронтире государственный банк, взяв таким образом под контроль процесс национализации. Затем, в начале 90-х, Талан был внедрен в преступную группу «Семь сильных людей», стал мафиозо и, используя возможности преступных групп, привел Вальдерса к власти, получив за это должность директора ЦРУ. Захватив Гейба Батчера, Раин связывается с Вальдерсом и заявляет, что может обнародовать и доказать факты из его преступной биографии. Испугавшись последствий, Вальдерс прекращает агрессию против Ацтекии. Портал-Рич отходит Фронтиру. Талана убивает мафия, узнавшая о том, что тот был агентом ЦРУ.

Ryan and his administration contend with the Russian Federation, currently led by their new President, Valeri Volodin. Volodin is established as a dedicated communist opposed to the West, seeking to restore Russia as a strengthened Soviet Union. Volodin moves to establish ties with Iran and China, reunify the nation's state security services under the FSB, and most notably annex Ukraine. Those opposed to his actions are replaced or assassinated by Russian government forces or elements of the "Seven Strong Men", a Mafia group that is now easily the most powerful and dangerous criminal underworld faction in Russia. When the FSB and SVR are officially merged following their director's assassination, Volodin makes the announcement that FSB director Roman Romanovich Talanov, Volodin's enigmatic enforcer, is the nation's new intelligence chief.

Sergey Golovko, having retired from the SVR and effectively exiled from Russia for acting as a high-profile Kremlin dissident against Volodin and his policies, succumbs to poisoning from a radioactive agent while at a private lunch at the White House. Ryan's old friend dies the next day, but on his deathbed, Golovko relays his concerns of Talanov's unknown background and mysterious connection to Volodin to Ryan. Ryan resolves to decipher Talanov's history and work out his links to Volodin, hopeful the answers behind his swift rise to power can be used as leverage against Volodin. As armed conflict becomes increasingly likely, Ryan focuses on the growing armed standoff in Ukraine and absorption of Crimea, with the rest of Ukraine facing imminent Russian invasion. An investigation following Golovko's death implicates the SSM working with the FSB. It also possibly identifies Talanov as a mysterious ex-GRU assassin who operated for the KGB during the Cold War, code-named "Zenith". Ryan is personally alarmed by these discoveries - he became involved in the Zenith affair in his time with the CIA as a MI6 liaison officer, during an investigation into a string of deaths in Berlin. Ryan ultimately sensed an unknown Russian operator was at work behind the events in Berlin, but he was encouraged by MI6 Director General Sir Basil Charleston to let it go. The mystery of Zenith was left unsolved for 30 years, and remained the sole remaining mystery of Ryan's intelligence career.

Operational assets of the Campus, with Jack Ryan Jr. leading the effort (much to his father's displeasure and trepidation for his safety), ultimately confirm Talanov was Zenith, and Volodin, a senior KGB officer at the time, still acts as his control officer. As young men, they were employed by members of the KGB and GRU leadership who knew the Soviet Union would eventually fall, but made a plan to survive and prosper in the chaotic aftermath, so they could seize control of the nation and turn it back to communism stronger than ever. After siphoning billions from Soviet programs to achieve it, Volodin double-crossed his co-conspirators and had Talanov kill them all so it would be theirs alone. Others were killed to maintain the safety of their black funds, including the bankers killed by Talanov during the Zenith affair so as to prevent exposure to the rest of the KGB. Talanov is also the secret leader of the Seven Strong Men, having been sent undercover with the SSM - placed in a gulag, Talanov worked his way up to become a charter member and leader of the Seven Strong Men, and through them become FSB director for the SSM's benefit and control of the government, when in actuality the SSM was a tool for Volodin's policies.

These discoveries are made with the help of former MI5 officer Victor Oxley, "Bedrock" - an off-book MI5 asset who operated as an assassin during the Cold War in similar fashion to Talanov, aka Zenith. Oxley's final mission before his disappearance was to hunt down and kill Zenith, but instead found Ryan Sr. about to be killed by a German Stasi team working with Zenith. Oxley interfered and saved Ryan's life, but was captured, driven away to Russia, brutally tortured by the KGB, and then imprisoned in the same gulag where Talanov ultimately was placed, accidentally hearing of Talanov being Zenith from other inmates. Oxley and the Campus team confront his traitorous control officer Hugh Castor, who confirms the entire story and protected Volodin and Talanov's secret in exchange for a cut of their black funds, but Castor gives up what he knows for protection by the American government, knowing Talanov will have realized Castor deceived him over the leverage he had. However, Talanov realizes this faster than Castor anticipated - a Spetsnaz team attacks Castor's property, and kill Castor and Oxley, the latter sacrificing himself for Jack Jr.

As the Russian invasion force pushes into Ukraine, the Campus team and Delta Force operators arrest Dmitri Nesterov, aka "Gleb the Scar", an SSM capo who is Talanov's second-in-command and who was behind Golovko's poisoning. With Nesterov and the Campus's acquired information in hand, Ryan makes contact with Volodin and confronts him with implications he could be politically destroyed by what he has learned about Zenith and Talanov's ties to the SSM: claiming (falsely) to have suitable evidence gathered that will ruin his government and the invasion, and he must distance himself from Talanov as the Campus has exposed him as a government spy who has been using them all along. Volodin pulls back his troops; in exchange, the United States keeps what evidence it has secret. Volodin also forces Talanov to resign from the FSB after his criminal dealings are made public and the SSM turns on him. Despite the promise of protection, Volodin arranged for Talanov to be killed - he is fatally stabbed by a civilian member of his guard force to earn the Seven Strong Men's favor. The stalemate of Russia and the United States is left ongoing.

Ryan, at this time, is in his mid-sixties and world-famous; and is looking forward to retirement back to the shores of Chesapeake Bay once and for all.
